                                                       Schottky–Kronecker forms
                                                     and hyperelliptic polylogarithms

                                                       Konstantin Baunea , Johannes Broedela , Egor Ima ,
                                                             Artyom Lisitsyna , Federico Zerbinib


                                                           a Institute for Theoretical Physics, ETH Zurich




arXiv:2406.10051v1 [hep-th] 14 Jun 2024
                                                         Wolfgang-Pauli-Str. 27, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland
                                                      b Departamento de Matemáticas Fundamentales, UNED

                                                         Calle de Juan del Rosal 10, 28040 Madrid, Spain


                                                    baunek@ethz.ch, jbroedel@ethz.ch, egorim@ethz.ch,
                                                      alisitsyn@ucdavis.edu, f.zerbini@mat.uned.es




                                                                              Abstract

                                          Elliptic polylogarithms can be defined as iterated integrals on a genus-one Rie-
                                          mann surface of a set of integration kernels whose generating series was already
                                          considered by Kronecker in the 19th century. In this article, we employ the
                                          Schottky parametrization of a Riemann surface to construct higher-genus ana-
                                          logues of Kronecker’s generating series, which we refer to as Schottky–Kronecker
                                          forms. Our explicit construction generalizes ideas from Bernard’s higher-genus
                                          construction of the Knizhnik–Zamolodchikov connection.
                                          Integration kernels generated from the Schottky–Kronecker forms are defined
                                          as Poincaré series. Under technical assumptions, related to the convergence of
                                          these Poincaré series on the underlying Riemann surface, we argue that these
                                          integration kernels coincide with a set of differentials defined by Enriquez, whose
                                          iterated integrals constitute higher-genus analogues of polylogarithms.
                                          Enriquez’ original definition is not well-suited for numerical evaluation of higher-
                                          genus polylogarithms. In contrast, the Poincaré series defining our integration
                                          kernels can be evaluated numerically for real hyperelliptic curves, for which the
                                          above-mentioned convergence assumptions can be verified. We numerically eval-
                                          uate several examples of genus-two polylogarithms, thereby paving the way for
                                          numerical evaluation of hyperelliptic analogues of polylogarithms.
Contents
1 Introduction                                                                                     3

2 Polylogarithms on Riemann surfaces of genus zero and one                                         6
  2.1 Genus zero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6
  2.2 Genus one . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7

3 Schottky parametrization of higher-genus Riemann surfaces                                       11
  3.1 Basics of higher-genus Riemann surfaces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       12
  3.2 Schottky parametrization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13

4 Higher-genus generalizations of the KZ connection                                               17
  4.1 The connection of Bernard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
  4.2 The connection of Enriquez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      18
  4.3 Other connections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     20

5 Higher-genus Kronecker forms in the Schottky parametrization                                    20
  5.1 Notation for the Kronecker form at higher genera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
  5.2 The Schottky–Kronecker forms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
  5.3 Properties of Schottky–Kronecker forms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
  5.4 Expansion into kernels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
  5.5 Relation to Enriquez’ connection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      30
  5.6 Hyperelliptic polylogarithms from Schottky–Kronecker forms . . . . . . . . . . .            30

6 Numerical evaluation of hyperelliptic polylogarithms                                            31
  6.1 A numerical approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      32
  6.2 Convergence of the Poincaré series . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
  6.3 An example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35

7 Conclusions                                                                                     36
  7.1 Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     36
  7.2 Outlook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36

Appendix                                                                                          38

A From the algebraic curve to the Schottky cover                                                  38

B Extra details for Schottky–Kronecker form                                                       40
  B.1 Quasiperiodicity in auxiliary variable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
  B.2 Derivation for the coefficients of the kernels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41




                                                 2
1       Introduction
Observables in high-energy particle physics, in particular scattering amplitudes or Wilson loops,
are functions of a set of parameters comprising for example masses and momenta of external
particles. These observables are usually calculated as solutions to differential equations, or –
interchangeably – in terms of parameter integrals. It is convenient to express such integrals in
terms of known special functions, such as the polylogarithm functions, whose study constitutes
the main motivation of this article, as well as, for instance, the Bessel functions and the hy-
pergeometric functions, but in simpler situations also the Gamma function, the trigonometric
functions and the elliptic functions. The key to relate observables with special functions is to
make use of the integral representation of the latter, which also contains information about the
“geometric setting”, encoded by the integration cycles and by the differential form integrated.
     In recent years, it became clear that expressing special functions as iterated integrals is
especially useful in physics, both because of the analytic and algebraic properties of the latter.
A result of Chen implies that iterated integrals capture deep information about the topology
of a manifold [1]. Consequently, the information on observables formerly expressed through
the corresponding differential equation can be framed more geometrically as properties of the
manifold on which the integration path is located.
     In this article, we generically call polylogarithms the iterated integrals over Riemann surfaces.
The only strict requirement is that these iterated integrals must be homotopy invariant, i.e. only
depend on the homotopy class of the integration path, so that they define functions on the
universal cover of the manifold, but we will mainly consider meromorphic (possibly multivalued1 )
integration kernels with at most simple poles. Polylogarithms, also known in the mathematics
literature as hyperlogarithms to distinguish them from the classical polylogarithms Lin , are
known to generate the smallest space of multivalued functions on a Riemann surface which
contains all meromorphic functions and which is closed under taking primitives [2, 3]: this
justifies their ubiquity in the computation of physics observables.
     A great advantage of this polylogarithmic formulation is that the space of functions generated
by polylogarithms has an especially nice (Hopf-)algebraic structure (see refs. [2,4,3] for example),
which comes with useful tools like coproduct and coaction. This has been exploited for various
calculations in the context of N = 4 super-Yang–Mills theory and string theories (see for example
refs. [5–7]).
     Classically, polylogarithms are special functions defined by the series Lik (z) = n≥1 z n /nk .
                                                                                         P

It is well known that they can be represented as iterated integrals on the Riemann sphere, which
has genus zero, and are therefore special cases of polylogarithms in the sense specified above.
Elliptic integrals can also be formulated as elliptic polylogarithms: they are integrals of rational
functions on an elliptic curve, which is a Riemann surface of genus one. Elliptic polylogarithms
of different flavours have a prominent role in the evaluation of multi-loop Feynman integrals.
In particular, they appear in the computation of the sunset and banana graphs, see e.g. [8–15].
In addition, elliptic polylogarithms provide a convenient language for expressing the results of
one-loop open-string scattering amplitudes [16–18]. Several situations, such as for example the
evaluation of the Feynman integral associated to what is known as the multi-scale massive double
box, require iterated integrals on Riemann surfaces of genus two and beyond [19, 20].
     All this indicates that polylogarithms have altered the way we are presenting results for
observables and in particular scattering amplitudes: the algebraic and analytic advantages of
    1
    By saying that a function or differential is multivalued, we mean that it is defined on the universal cover of
the manifold, rather than on the manifold itself.



                                                        3
such a canonical language are compelling. As the construction of polylogarithms and the current
understanding of their properties is different depending on the genus of the Riemann surface,
let us collect the state of the art in the following list:

   • Genus zero. Integrating rational functions on a Riemann surface of genus zero, i.e. the
     Riemann sphere, leads to functions known as Goncharov polylogarithms (or hyperloga-
                                                            dz
     rithms): they are iterated integrals of differentials z−c , where c ∈ C, over a path which
     starts at basepoint 0 and avoids the poles of the integrand everywhere, with the possible
     exception of the endpoints, where the integral may be divergent and must therefore be
     regularized. Being of genus zero, the Riemann sphere is topologically trivial, hence the
     only non-trivial topological information carried by Goncharov polylogarithms is encoded
     in the poles of the differentials. Goncharov polylogarithms for example comprise classical
     polylogarithms, harmonic polylogarithms and Nielsen polylogarithms [21–23].
     Numerical evaluation of genus-zero polylogarithms and their special values has been topic
     of numerous investigations and content of various software packages during the last two
     decades [24–28]. Compared to the numerical evaluation of polylogarithms on higher-genus
     surfaces, genus-zero polylogarithms are under excellent numerical control.

   • Genus one. Polylogarithms on genus-one Riemann surfaces are often called elliptic poly-
     logarithms. Different ways of parametrizing genus-one compact Riemann surfaces lead to
     different definitions of elliptic polylogarithms; we list here the three representations which
     are relevant for us. One approach is to represent such surfaces, via the so-called Jacobi
     uniformization, as the quotient of their Schottky cover C× by the Schottky group ≃ Z
     freely generated by one of their non-trivial homology cycles. Secondly, they can be seen,
     via the classical (Riemann) uniformization, as the quotient of their universal cover C by
     a lattice Λ ≃ Z2 which is isomorphic to their fundamental group. Incidentally, at genus
     one this quotient corresponds also to the Jacobian variety, which is a complex torus of
     dimension equal to the genus of the surface, conveniently capturing the dependence of a
     Riemann surface on its complex structure. Finally, they can be viewed as elliptic curves
     in the algebraic sense, i.e. the complex zeros of a genus-one smooth complex projective
     curve.
     Historically, the first approach to define elliptic analogues of polylogarithms was by using
     the Jacobi uniformization and by generalising the series representation of classical poly-
     logarithms [29–32]. They were later defined in [32] as iterated integrals on a complex torus
     using non-holomorphic single-valued integration kernels. For Feynman integrals applica-
     tion, however, it was desirable to work with meromorphic integration kernels. This led
     to considering iterated integrals Γ̃ of the meromorphic kernels g (n) (z − c)dz, an infinite
     family of differentials with possible simple poles at c ∈ C/Λ and multivalued on the torus,
     i.e. defined on its universal cover C [16, 33]. The generating function of the kernels g (n) is
     the so-called Kronecker function [34]; this function was already considered by Bernard to
     generalize the Knizhnik–Zamolodchikov (KZ) connection to genus one in the study of the
     Wess–Zumino–Witten (WZW) model [35], as well as in the mathematics literature [36–38].
     While the formulation of elliptic polylogarithms in terms of the Kronecker function proved
     to be very useful in string theory [16], it was desirable for the computation of observables
     in quantum field theory to define elliptic polylogarithms also in the algebraic setting.
     This was achieved in [33] using algebraic analogues of the g (n) -kernels. Another algebraic
     approach using finitely many rational kernels with higher-order poles was recently proposed

                                                4
     in ref. [39].
     All these approaches are expected, or in some cases known, to (essentially) generate the
     same space of functions. Efficiency of numerical evaluation crucially depends on the chosen
     representation of elliptic polylogarithms.

   • Genus two and higher. Starting from genus two, the Jacobian variety and the Riemann
     surface cannot be identified with each other anymore: this makes the dependence on the
     complex structure of the surface more difficult to control, therefore causing immediate
     problems in manipulating and evaluating polylogarithms. More specifically, the Riemann
     uniformization identifies now a compact genus-h Riemann surface Σ with its so-called
     Fuchsian model, a quotient of the hyperbolic upper half-plane H, i.e. the universal cover
     of Σ, by a discrete (Fuchsian) subgroup of SL(2, R) isomorphic to the fundamental group
     of Σ; on the other hand, Σ can be embedded into (but is not equal to) its Jacobian variety
     ≃ Ch /Z2h , which is defined in terms of the complex structure of the surface, via Abel’s
     map. The Jacobi uniformization generalizes at higher genus as the identification of Σ with
     the quotient of its Schottky cover, which is a subset of the Riemann sphere, by a Schottky
     group, i.e. a free subgroup of SL(2, C) on h generators which correspond to the h B-cycles
     of the surface.
     At least five different generalizations of the Kronecker function have been proposed in the
     literature. One can be extracted from Bernard’s work on the higher-genus KZ connection
     for the WZW model [40], and is formulated in the Schottky-cover setting. A somewhat
     more abstract approach, leading to infinitely many multivalued meromorphic kernels with
     at most simple poles (generalising the g (n) -kernels from genus one), was put forward by
     Enriquez to study braid groups in [41]. Recently, two families of rational kernels with
     higher-order poles were proposed in [42, 3] in an algebraic setting, with the explicit pur-
     pose of defining higher-genus polylogarithms, followed by an alternative string-theory mo-
     tivated approach [43] which generalizes the non-holomorphic single-valued kernels of [32].
     Relations between some of these approaches are currently under investigation [44].
     Unfortunately, it seems that none of these approaches to defining higher-genus polyloga-
     rithms can be directly exploited to obtain efficient numerical evaluations.

The goal of this article is to construct higher-genus polylogarithms and their integration kernels
in a framework in which the problem of their numerical evaluation can be tackled efficiently. The
main tool we are going to work with is the Schottky parametrization of higher-genus Riemann
surfaces. Inspired by Bernard’s higher-genus KZ connection, we construct Poincaré series over
the Schottky group, which we call Schottky–Kronecker forms, which generalize at higher genus
the genus-one Kronecker function. Under assumptions on the Riemann surface which ensure the
convergence of the defining Poincaré series, we show that our construction reproduces Enriquez’
connection. Our higher-genus integration kernels can be expressed as averages over the Schottky
group of genus-one kernels, and this property is the key to obtain quick numerical evaluations.
A case for which the convergence assumption is satisfied is that of a real hyperelliptic curve,
and we restrict our attention to this case. We study various examples, evaluate them and
check their analytic properties, and we comment on convergence and numerical stability of the
implementation.
    The article is organized as follows: in § 2 we review the construction of polylogarithms at
genus zero and one with a particular focus on the elliptic Kronecker function. In § 3 we recall ba-
sics of higher-genus surfaces, and we introduce the background on their Schottky parametrization

                                                5
needed for our construction. In § 4 we describe other approaches to the construction of higher-
genus analogues of the Kronecker functions and of elliptic polylogarithms, with a special focus
on the work of Bernard and Enriquez on flat connections which generalize the KZ connection.
The main results of this article are contained in § 5. We construct a set of Schottky–Kronecker
forms via formal averages over the Schottky group which generalize Bernard’s construction.
Relations, degenerations and in particular expansions into kernels are discussed, and we also
compare our construction with that of Enriquez. Finally, in § 6 we implement and employ the
above results to numerically evaluate various polylogarithms. We also discuss the convergence of
the Schottky averages which define our integration kernels, and give explicit examples of simple
polylogarithms at genus two. We summarize and formulate various open questions in § 7.


2       Polylogarithms on Riemann surfaces of genus zero and one
In this section we review the construction of the iterated integrals on Riemann surfaces of genus
zero and genus one which define classical and elliptic polylogarithms, respectively.

2.1     Genus zero
On the only compact Riemann surface of genus zero, the Riemann sphere CP1 , the integration
kernels used to define polylogarithms are the (third-kind) differentials with a simple pole at a
finite point a ∈ C, a second simple pole at ∞ with opposite residue, and holomorphic elsewhere2 ,
given by
                                                                 1
                                h(z − a) dz,     where h(z) := .                           (2.1)
                                                                 z
The function h(z) defined by eq. (2.1) satisfies the partial fraction identity

                               1     1
    h(z − z1 ) h(z − z2 ) =
                           z − z1 z − z2
                                                  
                               1       1      1                                          
                         =                 −         = h(z1 − z2 ) h(z − z1 ) − h(z − z2 ) . (2.2)
                           z 1 − z2 z − z 1 z − z2

This can be considered as a genus-zero version of the Fay identity for the genus-one Kronecker
function to be discussed below in eq. (2.13).
   Employing the differentials (2.1), one can define Goncharov polylogarithms, also known as
hyperlogarithms, as the iterated integrals
                                             Z z
              H(a1 , a2 , . . . , an ; z) :=     dt h(t − a1 ) H(a2 , . . . , an ; t), H(; z) = 1 . (2.3)
                                             0

The points ai are called letters and n is called the length. If a particular problem in physics can
be described in terms of Goncharov polylogarithms, one needs to determine the corresponding
alphabet containing a finite number of letters. In this article, we will also refer to Goncharov
polylogarithms as classical3 , or genus-zero, polylogarithms.
   In a string amplitude context, all Selberg integrals can be expanded into polylogarithms
with ai ∈ {0, 1}, known as one-variable multiple polylogarithms [45]. Goncharov polylogarithms
    2
     Notice that one cannot have a single simple pole on a compact Riemann surface, because the Cauchy residue
theorem would force the simple pole to have a vanishing residue.
   3
     This terminology may be a bit confusing, as usually classical polylogarithms are just the (very) special cases
Lin (z) of Goncharov polylogarithms whose Taylor expansion is given by k≥1 z k /kn .
                                                                          P




                                                        6
can be expressed as specializations of multiple polylogarithms, which are functions of several
complex variables [46, Lemma 3.4.2].
   Let us list some features of the Goncharov polylogarithms defined in eq. (2.3):

      • Regularization. Integrals in eq. (2.3) diverge logarithmically as soon as an = 0. This
        problem can be remedied by setting

                                                                        1
                                                  H(0, . . . , 0; z) :=    logn (z)                                       (2.4)
                                                    | {z }              n!
                                                          n

        and requiring w → H(w; z) to be a homomorphism from the shuffle algebra of all words w in
        the letters ai , which is already the case for all words corresponding to convergent integrals,
        by known properties of iterated integrals. This purely algebraic regularization is referred
        to as the shuffle regularization, and is equivalent to the more geometric tangential base
        point regularization, as explained for instance in [39].

      • Algebraic structure. Due to their definition as iterated integrals, polylogarithms obey
        shuffle product relations                     X
                                  H(⃗a; z) H(⃗b; z) =      H(⃗c; z) ,                      (2.5)
                                                                       ⃗c ∈ ⃗a ⃗b

        where ⃗a = (a1 , . . . , ar ), ⃗b = (b1 , . . . , bs ) and ⃗a ⃗b is the shuffle set of ⃗a and ⃗b, i.e. the set
        of all words formed by using all letters from ⃗a and ⃗b while keeping the relative orders of
        the letters from ⃗a and ⃗b intact. One can actually show that the algebra of (regularized)
        Goncharov polylogarithms is isomorphic to the abstract shuffle algebra of all words in
        the chosen alphabet, which is known to be a Hopf algebra, graded by the length of the
        words [2]. Goncharov polylogarithms therefore also enjoy the same nice algebra structure,
        the grading being given by the weight; in particular, they are linearly independent.

      • Special values. Evaluating at argument one Goncharov polylogarithms for the alphabet
        {0, 1}, one obtains real numbers called multiple zeta values:
                                                                                              X              1
             ζ(n1 . . . , ns ) = (−1)s H(0, . . . , 0, 1, . . . , 0, . . . , 0, 1; 1) =                               .   (2.6)
                                                                                                      k n1 · · · ksns
                                                                                          0<k1 <...<ks 1
                                         | {z }                   | {z }
                                                ns −1               n1 −1

        Also these values have to be regularized for ns = 1.

      • Primitives. Another important feature of polylogarithms is that they generate the clo-
        sure under taking primitives of the space of rational functions [2]. The procedure of taking
        integrals within this space is completely algorithmic, which massively simplifies the calcu-
        lation of some string amplitudes and Feynman integrals.

2.2      Genus one
At genus one a compact Riemann surface Σ has a more intricate geometric structure. The
two non-trivial loops which generate the fundamental group are referred to as the A-cycle A1
and B-cycle B1 . We pick a holomorphic differential4 ω1 which is normalized by setting its A-
                   H
cycle period to be A1 ω1 = 1. The corresponding B-cycle period defines the elliptic modulus
H
  B1 ω1 = τ ∈ H, where H is the complex upper half-plane.
  4
      There is only one holomorphic one-form on a genus-one surface, up to constants.


                                                                7
            (a)                                            (b)




            (c)                                            (d)
                  Im(z)
                            τ          1+τ




                                  1            Re(z)

Figure 1: Different representations of a compact Riemann surface of genus one. Picture (a) shows a
torus with its A-cycle (red) and B-cycle (blue), (b) displays the corresponding algebraic curve with its
branch cuts and A- and B-cycle, (c) is the fundamental domain in the universal cover C for the quotient
C/Z + τ Z, and (d) is a picture of the Schottky parametrization to be discussed in § 3.2.


    Two different elliptic moduli τ1 and τ2 arise from the same Riemann surface, if they are
related by a modular transformation
                                                    
                               aτ1 + b          a b
                          τ2 =         ,               ∈ SL(2, Z) = Sp(2, Z) ,                    (2.7)
                               cτ1 + d           c d

corresponding to a different choice of A- and B-cycles and evaluating the newly normalized
holomorphic differential.
    A compact genus-one Riemann surface can be viewed in different ways, as exemplified in
Figure 1:

 (a) Complex manifold. A compact genus-one Riemann surface is a one-dimensional com-
     pact complex manifold with fundamental group isomorphic to Z2 . To evaluate function-
     theoretic objects in this setting, one must specify a complex atlas, and we describe possible
     ways to do so in (b), (c) and (d).

 (b) Elliptic curve. Any compact genus-one Riemann surface can be viewed as the (compact-
     ified) set of complex solution of an affine equation of the form

                                                      4
                                                      Y
                                           2
                                        y = P4 (x) = α (x − ai ) ,                                (2.8)
                                                             i=1

      i.e. an elliptic curve. For applications, this algebraic viewpoint yields a more direct con-
      nection between Feynman integrals and elliptic polylogarithms.

 (c) Complex torus. Every compact genus-one Riemann surface can be viewed as a (one-
     dimensional) complex torus (i.e. the complex manifold given by the quotient C/(λ1 Z+λ2 Z),
     for λ1 , λ2 such that λ2 /λ1 ∈
                                  / R), for two very different reasons. The first is that every genus-
     h compact Riemann surface is embedded via Abel’s map into its Jacobian variety, which
     is an h-dimensional complex torus, and this map is an isomorphism at genus one. The

                                                       8
        second is that a genus-one compact Riemann surface has fundamental group isomorphic
        to Z2 and universal cover isomorphic to C, hence by the general theory of covering maps
        it must always be isomorphic to such a quotient. The complex numbers λ1 , λ2 are the
        periods of Σ, and can be obtained as the two integrals of a holomorphic one-form over
        the A- and B-cycle of the surface, respectively. As mentioned, we choose the holomorphic
        one-form in such a way that λ1 = 1 and λ2 = τ ∈ H. This is the language used to describe
        the construction of the elliptic polylogarithms Γ̃, and so § 2.2.1 will be phrased in this
        setting.

 (d) Schottky cover uniformization. In § 3.2, we will describe the torus as a quotient of
     its Schottky cover in preparation for our discussion of higher genera. Essentially, in the
     Schottky language a torus is described as a sphere with a pair of circles on it that are
     identified with each other, thus generating a handle.

2.2.1     Elliptic polylogarithms and the Kronecker form at genus one

Now, we review the generalization of the genus-zero polylogarithms (2.3) for the elliptic curves.
Following the logic of the classical polylogarithms, one could naively define the generalizations
as the iterated integrals of the genus-one analogues of the third kind differentials (2.1), which are
meromorphic one-forms with at most simple poles. Unfortunately, unlike the genus-zero case,
these differentials do not span a basis of the first de Rham cohomology of the Riemann surface
minus their poles; it therefore follows from [3] that they cannot generate a space which is closed
under taking primitives. One way to solve this problem and define elliptic polylogarithms is to
make use of multivalued integration kernels, which can be defined by giving a formula for their
generating series that involves the Kronecker function

                                                       θ′ (0|τ )θ(ξ + α|τ )
                                       F (ξ, α|τ ) =                        ,                                   (2.9)
                                                           θ(ξ|τ )θ(α|τ )

where θ(ξ|τ ) is the only genus-one odd theta function. This is a classical function, introduced by
Kronecker and further studied by Zagier [34, 36]. It is meromorphic and symmetric in the two
variables ξ, α ∈ C, with simple poles placed at all lattice points; the (holomorphic) dependence
on the lattice is encoded by the dependence on τ ∈ H. It is not periodic, i.e. single-valued on
the torus, but only quasiperiodic5 :

                     F (ξ + 1, α|τ ) = F (ξ, α|τ ) ,    F (ξ + τ, α|τ ) = e−2πı̊α F (ξ, α|τ ) .               (2.10)

Because of the A-cycle periodicity in the variables ξ, α, as well as the periodicity w.r.t. τ → τ +1,
F admits a triple Fourier expansion in an appropriate region of convergence, given by (see [36,32])
                                                                                    
                                    z        w       X
                                                            z m w−n − z −m wn q mn  ,
                                                                               
             F (ξ, α|τ ) = −2πı̊       −         +                                            (2.11)
                                   1−z 1−w
                                                              m,n>0


where6
                         z := exp(2πı̊ξ) ,     w := exp(−2πı̊α) ,        q := exp(2πı̊τ ) .                   (2.12)
   5
     Since the quasiperiodicity is only in the direction of the B-cycle, it is single-valued on any cover that distin-
guishes between points that are separated by B-cycles, e.g. a universal cover or a Schottky cover.
   6
     The convention used here is different from that of ref. [32], where wBL = exp(2πı̊α) is used. With our
convention, the B-cycle quasiperiodicity in eq. (2.10) reads F (ξ + τ, α|τ ) = w F (ξ, α|τ ).



                                                          9
The representation in eq. (2.11) is related to the Schottky parametrization to be introduced
below, and will serve as a starting point for the generalization of the Kronecker function to higher
genera, leading to a convenient approach in order to construct higher-genus polylogarithms, as
explained in § 5.
    A remarkable property of the Kronecker function is that it satisfies the Fay identity

 F (ξ1 , α1 |τ ) F (ξ2 , α2 |τ ) = F (ξ1 , α1 + α2 |τ ) F (ξ2 − ξ1 , α2 |τ ) + F (ξ2 , α1 + α2 |τ ) F (ξ1 − ξ2 , α1 |τ ) .
                                                                                                                  (2.13)
The above identity is the simplest instance of the Fay trisecant equation, which is a relation
between Riemann θ-functions defined for every genus h.
    The Kronecker function can be lifted to a function Ω(ξ, α|τ ) which is doubly-periodic in the
variable ξ and for which the Fay identity (2.13) remains valid, by introducing a non-holomorphic
prefactor:                                                              
                                                                Im(ξ)
                                   Ω(ξ, α|τ ) := exp 2πı̊α                  F (ξ, α|τ ) .                         (2.14)
                                                                Im(τ )
    We discuss now how the Kronecker function serves as a generating function for integra-
tion kernels on the complex torus. Since θ(α|τ ) has a simple zero at the origin, the function
α F (ξ, α|τ ) has a Taylor expansion at α = 0. We define a family of differentials g (n) (ξ|τ ) dξ, for
n ≥ 0, that will serve as integration kernels, out of this Taylor expansion:
                                                                   ∞
                                                                   X
                                             α F (ξ, α|τ ) dξ =:         g (n) (ξ|τ ) dξ αn .                     (2.15)
                                                                   n=0

This generating function is the object which will be generalized in § 5 below. The integration ker-
nels inherit the periodicity over A-cycles and quasiperiodicity over B-cycles from the Kronecker
function (see eq. (2.10)):
                                                                                  n
                                                                                  X
                      g (n) (ξ + 1|τ ) = g (n) (ξ|τ ) ,    g (n) (ξ + τ |τ ) =      (−2πı̊)k g (n−k) (ξ|τ ) .     (2.16)
                                                                                  k=0

They are meromorphic, with possible simple poles at the lattice points and holomorphic else-
where; in particular, the only differential which is not holomorphic at the origin is g (1) , which
has a simple pole at ξ = 0 with residue 1.
   If one desires periodic (i.e. single-valued) integration kernels, the periodic version of Kro-
necker function (2.14) can be similarly Taylor expanded to get a family of differentials f (n) (ξ|τ ) dξ
(which are however not holomorphic, but simply smooth), as discussed in refs. [32, 16, 33, 47].
   The kernels g (n) in eq. (2.15) can, by definition, be written in terms of θ and its derivatives,
but they also have a Fourier expansion inherited from eq. (2.11) (see e.g. [16]); for example
                                                                                     ∞               ∞
            (0)                      (1)            θ′ (ξ|τ )                  X           X
        g         (ξ|τ ) = 1 ,   g         (ξ|τ ) =           = π cot(πξ) + 4π   sin(2πmξ)   q mn .               (2.17)
                                                    θ(ξ|τ )
                                                                                    m=1              n=1

Our numerical evaluations in § 6 are based on the Fourier series of the genus-one kernels.
   Elliptic polylogarithms can be defined as iterated integrals7 of the kernels g (n) (ξ|τ ) dξ in the
   7
    These iterated integrals are not defined directly on the (punctured) complex torus, because the integration
kernels are not single-valued, but rather on its covering given by the complex plane minus the points ai . The
integrals are then well-defined, because the meromorphicity of the differentials ensures homotopy invariance, and
they define multivalued functions Γ̃ of ξ ∈ C.




                                                                   10
following way:
                                          Z ξ
         Γ̃ ( na11,, ...,
                     ..., nr
                          ar ; ξ|τ ) :=         dt g (n1 ) (t − a1 |τ ) Γ̃ ( na22,, ...,
                                                                                    ..., nr
                                                                                         ar ; t|τ ) ,   Γ̃ ( ; ξ|τ ) = 1 ,   (2.18)
                                           0
                                                                              P
where a1 , . . . , ar ∈ C and n1 , . . . , nr ≥ 0. In this definition, the sum j nj is called the weight
and r is called the length of a given elliptic polylogarithm. The notation Γ̃ was born to dis-
tinguish them from the iterated integrals Γ of the doubly-periodic but non-holomorphic kernels
f (n) (ξ|τ ) dξ.
     The above elliptic polylogarithms have been subject to numerous investigations during the
last few years. Let us list and comment on some of the properties:

    • Regularization. Similarly to the genus-zero case, because of the simple pole at ξ = 0
      of the kernels g (1) , the integrals in eq. (2.18) diverge as soon as (n1 , a1 ) = (1, 0). Elliptic
      polylogarithms are therefore also defined by regularizing the integral, either by the shuffle
      regularization or, equivalently, by the tangential basepoint regularization [39].

    • Algebraic structure. Elliptic polylogarithms generate an algebra whose structure was
      completely described in [39] in terms of a shuffle algebra. In particular, it was shown that
      elliptic polylogarithms are linearly independent, as the only relations that they satisfy are
      the shuffle relations arising from their iterated integral nature. The calculation of symbols
      of elliptic polylogarithms and the construction of a coaction as discussed in ref. [48] should
      be related to the Hopf algebra structure inherited from this shuffle algebra description.

    • Special values. In the same way as multiple zeta values are the special values defined
      as genus-zero polylogarithms evaluated at 1, elliptic multiple zeta values are defined as
      elliptic polylogarithms evaluated at8 1 [49,16,50,47,51]. They are functions of the modular
      parameter τ , and their modular dependence can be inferred from the fact that they can
      also be written as linear combinations of iterated integrals of Eisenstein series [49].

    • Primitives. Elliptic polylogarithms generate an algebra which is closed under taking
      primitives [33, 39], similarly to their genus-zero counterparts, leading to the same benefits
      when evaluating one-loop string amplitudes or Feynman integrals. Closure under taking
      primitives can be viewed as a fundamental property that we require for higher-genus
      generalizations of the polylogarithms [3], and it is expected to hold for the iterated integrals
      generated by Enriquez’ connection from § 4.2. For this reason, when we generalize the
      Kronecker function to higher genera we will impose that it matches the requirements
      which uniquely determine Enriquez’ connection.


3    Schottky parametrization of higher-genus Riemann surfaces
In this section we introduce the background on higher-genus Riemann surfaces needed in the rest
of the article. After a general introduction, we review a specific parametrization of the Riemann
surface, known as the Schottky parametrization, which will be exploited in § 5 to construct
higher-genus analogues of the genus-one integration kernels from the previous section.
   8
     These are actually called A-elliptic MZVs, because they describe the monodromy of the KZB connection
along the A-cycle. One may also consider the special values at τ , which are called B-elliptic MZVs, which are
related to A-elliptic MZVs by a modular transformation.




                                                                       11
         (a)                                                  (b)




Figure 2: A Riemann surface of genus two with its A-cycles (red) and B-cycles (blue) represented by
(a) a double torus and (b) a corresponding Schottky cover.


3.1   Basics of higher-genus Riemann surfaces
The material of this section is standard, and our brief overview is simply meant to set the
notation which will be used throughout the next sections. A more detailed treatment can be
found for example in [52]. For a compact Riemann surface Σ of genus h, let

                                        A1 , B1 , . . . , Ag , Bg                             (3.1)

be loops which generate the fundamental group of Σ, such that the corresponding homology
cycles satisfy intersection relations

                           Ai #Aj = 0 = Bi #Bj ,              Ai #Bj = δij ,                  (3.2)

which make them into a symplectic basis of the first cohomology group, and which may be
intuitively interpreted by having each Bi wrap around a hole of the compact Riemann surface,
and Ai wrapping around each handle. For a genus-two surface this is depicted in Figure 2,
showing the cycles on the double torus (as well as a genus-two Schottky parametrization, as
discussed in § 3.2).
    The space of holomorphic differentials on the compact Riemann surface is of dimension h,
for which we select a basis normalized by
                                 I                I
                                     ωj = δij ,      ωj = τij .                        (3.3)
                                   Ai                    Bi

where the period matrix τ := (τij )i,j , uniquely determined by the first condition for the A-
cycle integrals in eq. (3.3), is symmetric with positive definite imaginary part and contains the
complex-geometric information of the surface. Two different period matrices τ and τ ′ describe
the same Riemann surface if they are related by a modular transformation
                                                           !
                           ′                  −1      a b
                          τ = (aτ + b)(cτ + d) ,              ∈ Sp(2h, Z) .                 (3.4)
                                                      c d

This transformation is a result of choosing a different symplectic basis of A- and B-cycles,
                                         !           !     !
                                      ⃗′
                                      B        a b       ⃗
                                                         B
                                      ⃗    =             ⃗   ,                               (3.5)
                                      A′       c d       A




                                                   12
                                                          ω′ = ⃗
with correspondingly normalized holomorphic differentials ⃗     ω (cτ + d)−1 .
   The Jacobian variety J(Σ) is then defined by taking a quotient of Ch by the lattice generated
by the A- and B-cycle periods of the holomorphic forms:

                                          J(Σ) := Ch /(Zh + τ Zh ) .                                        (3.6)

   Using the basis of holomorphic forms satisfying eq. (3.3) one can define Abel’s map u from
two copies of the universal cover of a genus-h Riemann surface to Ch as
                                                         Z p
                                       ui (p, p0 |τ ) :=     ωi ,                        (3.7)
                                                              p0

which restricts to a well-defined map from two copies of the Riemann surface to the Jacobian
variety.

3.2    Schottky parametrization
In this section we describe the Schottky parametrization [53] of compact Riemann surfaces. This
approach is very geometrical: the starting point is the Riemann sphere C = C ∪ {∞}, and each
additional genus is represented by identifying a pair of disjoint Jordan curves9 in C, which can
be imagined as the ends of a handle spanning in between the circles. For a detailed review we
refer to ref. [54, 55].
     Let us start with some definitions. Let C1 , . . . , Ch , C1′ , . . . , Ch′ be a set of 2h mutually disjoint
Jordan curves on a Riemann sphere C. The Schottky group G is defined as a Kleinian group,
(i.e. a discrete subgroup of PSL(2, C)) generated by h loxodromic transformations γ1 , . . . , γh
of the sphere that map the exterior of Ci to the interior of Ci′ . We will call them Schottky
generators.
     As for any loxodromic transformation, each Schottky generator γi is parametrized by its two
“fixed points”, which are defined as Pi := limn→∞ γin z and Pi′ := limn→∞ γi−n z for some z not
being a fixed point, and by a multiplier parameter λi of absolute value ̸= 1 related to the trace
of γi and adhering to the relation

                                            γi z − Pi′      z − Pi′
                                                       = λi         .                                       (3.8)
                                            γi z − Pi       z − Pi

Taking into account the equivalence of different Schottky groups related by a Mœbius trans-
formation, i.e. an element of PSL(2, C), in total we have 3h − 3 parameters, which precisely
matches the dimension of the moduli space of genus-h compact Riemann surfaces.
   The 2h curves {Ci , Ci′ }hi=1 bound a connected region of the Riemann sphere denoted as F
The union of the images of F under the Schottky group
                                                         [
                                              Ω(G) :=         γ(F)                                          (3.9)
                                                        γ∈G

is the region of discontinuity of the action of G on the sphere, and F is its fundamental domain.
The Schottky uniformization theorem states that for any Riemann surface Σ there exists a
Schottky group G such that
                                           Σ = Ω(G)/G .                                     (3.10)
   9
    A Jordan curve is a simple (i.e. not self-intersecting) closed curve in the plane. Jordan curves are homeomor-
phic to the unit circle.



                                                       13
In other words, Ω(G) → Σ is an unramified cover of the Riemann surface Σ, and G is the
cover automorphism group, and these data provide a uniformization of the surface. In the
following, the terms Schottky uniformization and Schottky parametrization are going to be used
interchangeably.
    Evidently, the Schottky uniformization for a given Riemann surface is not unique: it is always
possible to apply a Mœbius transformation to the sphere and conjugate the Schottky generators
by this transformation in order to obtain an equivalent uniformization. The Mœbius invariance
will prove to be an important notion later in this article.
    Although in principle there always exists a Schottky uniformization for any Riemann surface,
in practice it is an open problem to find a Schottky group that uniformizes a given Riemann
surface (called the inverse uniformization problem). Moreover, it is unknown if every Schottky
group gives rise to a Riemann surface.
    There exists, however, a subclass of the Schottky groups called classical Schottky groups, for
which one makes the specific choice for the Jordan curves Ci , Ci′ to be circles. In what follows,
we solely focus on this type of Schottky groups. Although it is not known whether any Riemann
surface can be uniformized by a classical Schottky group, at least for real hyperelliptic curves10
this statement holds [56]. Moreover, every classical Schottky group corresponds to a Riemann
surface and particular statements about the convergence of the Poincaré series defined on the
surface can be made (cf. § 3.2.1).
    Given a pair {C, C ′ } of circles with radii rC and rC ′ and centers pC and pC ′ , respectively,
one can construct the corresponding Mœbius transformation γi by inverting at C, rescaling and
successively shifting to C ′ , i.e.

                                                −1       −rC rC ′     −rC rC ′
                    γ : z 7−→ z − pC 7−→             7−→          7−→          + pC ′ .                     (3.11)
                                              z − pC     z − pC ′     z − pC

    In the language of the Schottky uniformization it is easy to assign A- and B-cycles given a
pair of circles. Conventionally, one takes the A-cycle to be the pair of circles (remember that
they are identified on the Schottky cover) and the corresponding B-cycle can then be chosen
along any line connecting the two boundaries. Figure 1 (d) depicts this setup of A- and B-
cycles for a genus-one surface Schottky uniformization, where the loxodrome is associated to the
B-cycle. Similarly, Figure 2 (b) depicts a genus-two Schottky uniformization.

3.2.1    Poincaré series

In the language of the Schottky uniformization various objects on the underlying Riemann
surface are expressed in terms of automorphic forms, which can be written as Poincaré series
over (cosets of) the Schottky group. Classically, a Poincaré series of dimension −2k is a series
                                                     X
                                        θ−2k (z) =          (γ ′ (z))k ψ(γz) ,                              (3.12)
                                                     γ∈G∗

where ψ(z) is a meromorphic function on a complex domain D and G∗ is an appropriate coset of
a group G acting on D such that the summation is performed over distinct terms only and ψ(z)
does not have poles in the singular set of G∗ , i.e. the closure of the fixed points of all elements
of G∗ excluding the identity.
  10
     A hyperelliptic curve is a complex projective curve whose affine equation can be given in the form y 2 = P (x),
with P a polynomial of degree d ≥ 3. Its complex points define a compact Riemann surface of genus ⌈d/2⌉ − 1.
It is called real when the coefficients of P are real.



                                                        14
   Let us introduce, for i ∈ {1, . . . , h}, the subgroups Gi := ⟨γi ⟩ ≤ G, where γi are the Schottky
generators of the Schottky group G, and consider the right and left cosets

                                      G / Gi = {γjn11 · · · γjnkk : γjk ̸= γi } ,
                                       Gi \ G = {γjn11 · · · γjnkk : γj1 ̸= γi } .                         (3.13)

Then, the holomorphic differentials of a Riemann surface can be expressed on the Schottky cover
with Schottky group G as the (−2)-dimensional Poincaré series
                                                                
                                  1 X             1         1
                     ωi (z|G) =                        −           dz
                                 2πı̊          z − γPi′ z − γPi
                                      γ∈G/Gi
                                                                
                                  1 X             1         1
                              =                        −           d(γz) ,               (3.14)
                                 2πı̊          γz − Pi′ γz − Pi
                                               γ∈Gi \G


where Pi and Pi′ are the fixed points11 defined earlier, provided that the defining Poincaré
series are absolutely convergent12 . One way to recognize these differentials intuitively is by
recalling the normalization conditions they must satisfy when integrating along the A-cycles.
The circle corresponding to A-cycle Aj contains the fixed point Pj , as well as both γPk and
γPk′ for γ = γj · · · . Integrating along the circle, we can use the Cauchy residue theorem, where
the residues from γPk and γPk′ cancel each other, while the only contribution that does not
cancel out when integrating ωj is from the pole at Pj , giving the desired unit normalization
R
  Aj ωk = δjk . Additionally, one may notice that the genus-h holomorphic differentials from
(3.14) can be written as                           X
                                      ωi (z|G) =         ω(γz, Gi ),                         (3.15)
                                                         γ∈Gi \G

where ω(z|Gi ) is the only holomorphic differential of the genus-one surface13 corresponding to
the Schottky group Gi .
   Thanks to this representation of the holomorphic differentials, Abel’s map can be calculated
on a pair of points z, z0 on the Schottky cover by14
                                      Z z
                                                1 X
                      ui (z, z0 |G) =     ωi =         log{z, γPi′ , z0 , γPi } ,        (3.16)
                                       z0      2πı̊
                                                               γ∈G/Gi

where the definition of the cross-ratio
                                                               (z1 − z2 )(z3 − z4 )
                                      {z1 , z2 , z3 , z4 } =                                               (3.17)
                                                               (z1 − z4 )(z3 − z2 )

was used. Moreover, the corresponding period matrix, which we will denote τ (G), have entries
                         Z                     X
               τij (G) =     ωi = δij log λi +        log{Pj′ , γPi′ , Pj , γPi } .    (3.18)
                                 Bj                            γ∈Gj \G/Gi

  11
      Notice that due to the choice of the coset Gi \ G the poles at Pi and Pi′ are not problematic.
  12
      For a generic Schottky group G this series might be divergent. We will comment on this issue at the end of
the section.
   13
      In the genus-one case the coset over which the summation is performed in (3.14) only consists of the identity
element.
   14
      We introduce this special notation for Abel’s map on the Schottky cover in order to distinguish from the
original definition on the universal cover in eq. (3.7).



                                                               15
The invariance of Abel’s map and of the period matrix under a Mœbius transformation σ =
     
 a b ∈ PSL(2, C) – where we transform each point as z 7→ σz and elements of the group as
 c d
γ 7→ σγσ −1 – directly follows from the corresponding property of the cross-ratio:

        {σz1 , σz2 , σz3 , σz4 } = {z1 , z2 , z3 , z4 } =⇒ ui (σz, σz0 |σGσ −1 ) = ui (z, z0 |G) .   (3.19)

   Similarly, the Poincaré series for the holomorphic differentials also exhibit Mœbius invariance.
In order to see this, one can study the fundamental building blocks and observe how they
transform when we apply σ:

                                    d(σz) = (cz + d)−2 dz ,
                                                                                                     (3.20)
                             (σz − σx)n = (cz + d)−n (cx + d)−n (z − x)n .

With these properties in mind, it can be verified that each term in the expansion of ωi (z|G) is
Mœbius invariant. In what follows, we write the Kronecker function as a Poincaré series over the
Schottky group and generalize this approach; in particular, we will require Mœbius invariance,
and we will use analogous Mœbius invariant terms to obtain the desired independence from the
choice of a Schottky cover.
    Generally, the convergence of a Poincaré series over a Schottky group is not guaranteed, and
the expression for the holomorphic differential (3.14) is not always well-defined. However, as
long as we restrict to classical Schottky groups, particular statements about the convergence of a
(−2)-dimensional Poincaré series can be made. Specifically, the series turns out to be convergent
if the configuration of the circles on the sphere is so-called circle decomposable (also known as
the Schottky criterion [54]). By means of the explicit construction (see Appendix A) for a real
hyperelliptic curve one can always find a classical circle-decomposable Schottky group such that
the Poincaré series is convergent.

3.2.2   Concentric Schottky cover

A useful example of a Schottky cover is the concentric Schottky cover at genus one. Using
the Mœbius invariance of the Schottky cover, we can choose to fix P1 = 0 and P1′ = ∞,
leaving
√        uswith the generator γ1 : z 7→ qz, with q ∈ C, which corresponds to the element
    q   0
        √
   0 1/ q     ∈ PSL(2, C). The corresponding Schottky group will be denoted by Gc := ⟨γ1 ⟩ ≃ Z.
The A-cycle of the underlying Riemann surface Ω(Gc )/Gc can then be identified with the pair
of circles of radii 1 and |q|, and the B-cycle connects the points 1 and q; a fundamental domain
isomorphic to the surface is the annulus bounded by the circles of radius |q| and 1, whereas the
Schottky cover Ω(Gc ) is C \ {0}. The modulus τ (Gc ) of the underlying Riemann surface, which
can be computed using eq. (3.18) or through a direct integration, is such that q = exp(2πı̊τ ).
We refer the reader to Figure 3 for a picture.
                                                                                               dz
    The normalized holomorphic differential on this Schottky cover is simply ω1 (z|Gc ) = 2πı̊z   .
One can pass from this Schottky cover to the torus, i.e. the Jacobian variety, by exponentiation,
writing z = exp(2πı̊ξ) as in eq. (2.12). As a consequence, the addition of points we used on the
genus one Jacobian variety corresponds to the multiplication of coordinates on the concentric
Schottky cover. These properties serve as a starting point for translating the Kronecker function
to Schottky covers for its generalization in § 5.2, and is also useful as an alternative method for
proving the Fay identity for the genus-one Kronecker function as shown later in eq. (5.22).
    Similarly, one may choose to define a concentric Schottky cover for higher genera, choosing
some arbitrary pair of fixed points to fix to 0 and ∞. However, due to the presence of other


                                                       16
                                                                       |q|         1




Figure 3: Schottky uniformization of a genus one Riemann surface, chosen such that the fixed points are
at 0 and ∞, yielding concentric circles. The red circles correspond to A-cycles, with a B-cycle connecting
them drawn in blue.


generators in the Schottky group, choosing a concentric Schottky cover at higher genus does not
lead to the same convenient properties.


4        Higher-genus generalizations of the KZ connection
Homotopy invariant iterated integrals on a manifold can be systematically constructed out of a
flat connection on a principal G-bundle over the manifold, for G a Lie group. More specifically,
suppose that one can write the connection as d + K, with K a differential one-form, valued in
the Lie algebra of G, which satisfies the integrability condition (equivalent to the flatness of the
connection)
                                        dK + K ∧ K = 0.                                        (4.1)

We will call K a connection form 15 . Eq. (4.1) implies that iterated integrals of K over some
path only depend on the endpoints of the path and on its homotopy class. This implies that
the G-valued path-ordered exponential integral
                              Z z              Z z            Z z            Z t1
                      P exp         K := 1 +         K(t) +         K(t1 )             K(t2 ) + · · · ,   (4.2)
                               z0               z0             z0             z0

where the (fixed) integration basepoint z0 and the variable z live in the universal cover, is
well-defined, and serves as a generating series of homotopy invariant iterated integrals [57].
    In this article, we are only interested in the case where the manifold is a Riemann surface16 ,
in which case homotopy invariant iterated integrals correspond to higher-genus analogues of the
classical genus-zero polylogarithms, which arise from the path-ordered exponential integral of
the Knizhnik–Zamolodchikov (KZ) connection. A property of the KZ connection which seems
convenient for physics applications and therefore that we would like to hold, for a higher-genus
generalization, is to be regular-singular, i.e. the connection form K should have at most simple
poles.
    15
    In the literature, K is also called a Maurer–Cartan element [42, 3].
    16
    Multivariable polylogarithms can also be generalized by considering flat connections on configuration spaces
of points on higher-genus Riemann surfaces, for example along the lines of [41, 42].



                                                        17
    Moreover, if the genus is strictly positive, one should notice a subtlety: unlike at genus zero,
there is now a trade off between having a single-valued connection form and a holomorphic
connection form17 . In the former case (see [32, 43]), the connection is single-valued and smooth
but not holomorphic. In the latter case, the connection form is holomorphic but cannot be single-
valued: it is defined on some cover of the surface (see [37, 33, 41, 35]). In this article we focus on
the holomorphic setting, as it seems more suitable for applications in particle physics [33]. At
genus one, a connection form in this setting can be constructed (see [37]) out of the Kronecker
function of § 2.2, which is indeed holomorphic and multivalued. Therefore we formulate the
problem of constructing a flat connection in terms of constructing a higher-genus generalization
of the Kronecker function. In this section, we review known approaches towards a generalization
of the KZ connection, with special focus on the approaches of Bernard and Enriquez which are,
as we will see, closely related to the construction proposed in this article.

4.1    The connection of Bernard
The KZ connection on a genus-zero Riemann surface (sphere) was constructed in the context of
Wess–Zumino–Witten models [58]. This flat connection induces the differential equations (Ward
identities) for the correlation functions of the model, and the iterated integrals which arise from
it are the classical genus-zero polylogarithms. The generalization of this approach for the model
on Riemann surfaces of higher genera was achieved by Bernard [35, 40], who realized that, upon
twisting affine currents with elements of a Lie group G on which the model is defined, it was
possible to determine the Ward identities similar to the KZ equations. The KZ connection in
this case is then replaced by the KZB connection d + KB , where KB is defined as a Poincaré
series over a Schottky group G ≤ PSL(2, C) that uniformizes the underlying surface (see § 3.2),
and depends on a twist homomorphism18 g : G → G:
                                                      X d(γz)
                                      KB (z, x|g) =                   g −1 (γ).                               (4.3)
                                                             γz − x
                                                      γ∈G

This is a one-form in the variable z, and a function in the auxiliary point x; both z and x live
in the Schottky cover of the surface, and KB has a simple pole at z = x, as well as at every shift
of x by a B-cycle.
    If we specify to the case of genus one, it can be explicitly shown, upon an appropriate choice
of the Lie group G and of the twist homomorphism, that the connection form KB can be written
in terms of the Kronecker function (2.9) (see § 5.2) and that it essentially coincides with the
connection form KCEE constructed by Calaque–Enriquez–Etingof19 [37]. The latter can be used
to generate the iterated integrals which define the elliptic polylogarithms Γ̃ of [33].

4.2    The connection of Enriquez
Enriquez in [41] defined a family of multivalued meromorphic differentials ωi1 ...is j (z, x) on a
compact Riemann surface Σ, where s ≥ 0 and i1 , . . . , is , j ∈ {1, . . . , h}, which are one-forms
in the variable z but depend also on an auxiliary point x. These differentials have at most a
  17
     Another possibility, explored in [38] at genus one and in [42, 3] at higher-genus, is to allow for higher-order
poles, in which case it is possible to obtain a single-valued holomorphic connection form.
  18
     More precisely, to obtain Bernard’s connection one should apply the morphism Ad to KB , so that KB is
not valued in g := Lie(G), but rather in the Lie algebra ad(g). Accordingly, the corresponding connection is not
defined on a G-bundle, but rather on an Ad(G)-bundle.
  19
     Levin and Racinet independently introduced the same connection in [38].



                                                        18
simple pole at z = x and are holomorphic elsewhere; moreover, they are single-valued along the
A-cycles, and are therefore single-valued on the Schottky cover Ω(Σ) of Σ. We will therefore
consider z and x as variables on Ω(Σ). The differential ωj is the j-th holomorphic differential
on Σ from § 3.1. At genus one, i1 · · · is j is just a string of s + 1 ones, and ωi1 ...is j (z, x) can be
written in terms of the integration kernels g (s) from § 2.2.
   For each j one can consider the generating series

                                           X       h
                                                   X
                            Kj (z, x) :=                       ωi1 ...is j (z, x) bi1 · · · bis     (4.4)
                                           s≥0 i1 ,...,is =1

in terms of formal non-commutative variables b1 , . . . , bh , which can be assembled to define a
differential KE given by
                                            Xh
                               KE (z, x) :=     Kj (z, x)aj ,                                (4.5)
                                                        j=1

which is the only meromorphic multivalued differential with at most simple poles at x, holomor-
phic elsewhere, and single-valued along the A-cycles, which satisfies

  (i) KE (z + Bk , x) = ebk KE (z, x) for every k = 1, . . . , h ,                                  (4.6)

 (ii) Resz=x KE (z, x) = − hi=1 bi ai /2πı̊ .
                            P
                                                                                                    (4.7)

     The differential KE is the main building block of the construction by Enriquez in [41] of
a holomorphic flat connection on a non-trivial principal bundle over the configuration space
Conf n (Σ) of n points on Σ, which extends to a meromorphic connection on Σn , with simple
poles along the diagonals. Enriquez was motivated by the study of braid groups, which are
fundamental groups of configuration spaces of Riemann surfaces, and more precisely of their pro-
unipotent completion π1un (Conf n (Σ)), which is isomorphic to the fibre of the above mentioned
bundle. Even though the definition of KE makes use of an auxiliary point x on Σ, the flat
connection turns out to be independent of x.
     In the genus-one case, Enriquez’ connection reduces to the connection d + KCEE from [37]
which, as discussed in the previous section, is closely related to the genus-one KZB connection.
     Here we are interested in the case of a single Riemann surface, i.e. n = 1. In this case,
Enriquez’ connection is essentially d + KE , provided that one replaces bi by ad(bi ), so that KE
is valued in the degree-completion of the Lie algebra on 2h generators a1 , . . . , ah , b1 , . . . , bh ,
                           Ph                                                       un
subject to the relation      i=1 [ai , bi ] = 0, which is the Lie algebra of π1 (Σ) (the generators
ai , bi correspond to the A- and B-cycles of the torus, respectively). The residue of KE at x
has then residue proportional to hi=1 [ai , bi ], which in this Lie algebra equals zero, hence the
                                       P

connection is indeed holomorphic on the whole surface; this is consistent with the fact that
Enriquez’ connection should be independent of x.
     Thinking of KE as a differential form valued in the degree-completion of the free Lie algebra
on 2h generators, with a true simple pole at x, which is the approach taken here, corresponds
geometrically to constructing a connection on a one-punctured Riemann surface, whose funda-
mental group is freely generated by A- and B-cycles.
     The original definition of Enriquez of the differentials ωi1 ...is j (z, x) is not constructive. Sub-
sequently, recursive formulas which in principle allow to compute these differentials were given
in [42], but do not seem suitable for numerical computations.




                                                        19
4.3      Other connections
As previously mentioned, at genus-one the connections of Bernard and Enriquez essentially
coincide with the connection d + KCEE constructed by Calaque–Enriquez–Etingof20 , where
KCEE := ad(b)F (ξ, ad(b))(a)dξ is built out of the Kronecker function (2.9). Levin–Racinet [38]
and Brown–Levin [32] constructed two different gauge transformations d + JLR = gLR (d +
        −1                                   −1
KCEE )gLR   and d + JBL = gBL (d + KCEE )gBL     that are flat on the trivial bundle over the curve
(whereas d + KCEE is a connection on a non-trivial principal bundle, because KCEE is multi-
valued). To do so, one must find a function g such that gKCEE is single-valued; Levin–Racinet
achieved it by allowing for higher-order poles at the puncture, picking gLR = exp(g (1) (z|τ ) ad(b)),
whereas Brown–Levin achieved it by downgrading holomorphicity to smoothness, picking gBL =
exp(2πı̊ Im(z)/Im(τ )ad(b)), as already mentioned in § 2.2. The spaces of iterated integrals con-
structed out of these flat connections are very closely related21 .
    Both of the above-described constructions have a higher-genus analogue: the connection
d + KE of Enriquez was explicitly gauge conjugated by Enriquez–Zerbini [42] to a connection
d + JEZ , where JEZ is single-valued with a higher-order pole, thus generalizing Levin–Racinet,
whereas the Brown–Levin connection was generalized by D’Hoker–Hidding–Schlotterer [43], who
constructed a flat connection d+JDHS , with JDHS single-valued and smooth, whose relation with
the connection d + KE of Enriquez is under investigation [44]. The construction of these con-
nections is explicit but recursive, and does not seem very suitable for numerical approximation.
Similarly to the genus-one situation, all these connections produce iterated integrals which are
closely related. In the case of d + JEZ , such iterated integrals generate a space over the ring
of rational functions on the curve which is closed under taking primitives (this can be deduced
from [3]). Moreover, in [3] it was shown that the same space can be generated also by the iterated
integrals constructed out of “simpler” connections which only involve a finite set of meromor-
phic single-valued kernels with higher-order poles. All the iterated integrals arising from the
above-mentioned connections can be considered as higher-genus analogues of polylogarithms.


5        Higher-genus Kronecker forms in the Schottky parametriza-
         tion
In this section we construct a Mœbius-invariant version of Bernard’s connection form (4.3). Our
construction, similarly to that of Bernard, makes use of the Schottky parametrization introduced
and discussed in § 3.2. More precisely, at genus h ≥ 1 we explicitly construct a set of h higher-
genus analogues of the Kronecker form as Poincaré series over elements of a Schottky group
(see § 5.2), whose properties are explored and discussed in § 5.3.
    These Schottky–Kronecker forms serve as generating series of integration kernels, as ex-
plained in § 5.4. Noticing the formal similarity with the expansion into kernels of the connection
form of Enriquez in eq. (4.5), we identify the two sets of kernels in § 5.5 under the assumption
that the defining Poincaré series are convergent. In particular, we argue that this is the case for
real hyperelliptic curves. We define hyperelliptic polylogarithms in § 5.6 as iterated integrals of
these integration kernels.
    20
    Levin and Racinet independently introduced the same connection in [38].
    21
    The space generated over the ring of rational functions on the elliptic curve by the iterated integrals of the
Levin–Racinet flat connection is closed under taking primitives (this can be deduced from [3]). The spaces gener-
ated by the iterated integrals Γ̃ and Γ of the Calaque–Enriquez–Etingof and Brown–Levin connection, respectively,
coincide with the former space upon adding some extra functions arising from the gauge transformations (see [39]
for more details about the Γ̃-space).


                                                       20
5.1       Notation for the Kronecker form at higher genera
As we seek to find a generalization of a generating series for higher-genus integration kernels,
it is convenient for us to introduce a notation for the Kronecker function accompanied by the
differential dξ as in eq. (2.15). At the same time, we also want to consider it a function on the
Schottky cover. At genus one we therefore introduce the Schottky–Kronecker form S, which is
defined for the concentric Schottky group Gc defined in § 3.2.2 by

                                 S(z, x, w|Gc ) := F (ξ − χ, α|τ (Gc )) dξ ,                                (5.1)

where the Kronecker function F on the right-hand side was defined in eq. (2.9). Here τ (Gc )
is the modulus of the torus corresponding to the concentric Schottky group Gc , and z and w
are related to ξ and α according to the conventions (2.12) used before. Additionally, here we
have introduced an auxiliary point χ ∈ C, whose image on the Schottky cover is given by
x = exp(2πı̊χ).
    As we will generalize the Kronecker form to higher genera, Gc will be a general Schottky
group G and the relations between z, x and ξ, χ will be replaced by Abel’s map:

                                    ξ = u(z, z0 |G) ,    χ = u(x, z0 |G) ,                                  (5.2)

whereas the w will be promoted to a vector w    ⃗ of formal non-commutative variables. The
                                                                       w|G)}hj=1 at genus h.
Kronecker form will then be generalized to a set of h forms {Sj (z, x, ⃗
   The choices made for the definition and notation of the Schottky–Kronecker form were made
with the following considerations:

       • Translation invariance. At genus zero and one, the definition of polylogarithms takes
         advantage of the translation invariance on the universal cover. The pole of the integration
         kernel is usually placed at the origin, and can be moved to the desired location simply by
         subtracting the coordinate of the corresponding point. At higher genera, there does not
         exist a cover where such a simple translation property can be used to control the location
         of the pole. Consequently, the definition of the Schottky–Kronecker form in eq. (5.1)
         keeps track of the location of the pole for the higher-genus analogues of the kernels as the
         separate variable x.

       • Functions versus forms. Since meromorphic differentials are defined to be independent
         of chart, their corresponding component functions transform under coordinate transfor-
         mations,
                                                                                dz
                                ω = f (z) dz = f (z ′ ) dz ′ =⇒ f (z ′ ) = f (z) ′ .              (5.3)
                                                                                dz
         At genus one, one nonetheless works with the Kronecker function, using only the universal
         cover where dz is a global differential. However, should we choose to use a different choice
         of coordinates, such as a Schottky cover, one runs into two problems: the local chart
         changes when moving around a cycle, i.e. d(γz) ̸= dz, and the choice of the underlying
         cover itself is not unique. Consequently, the definition of the Schottky–Kronecker form in
         eq. (5.1) includes the differential, allowing us to identify it as a chart-independent object.

       • Characterization through quasiperiodicity and residue. The Schottky–Kronecker
         form at genus one is quasiperiodic in the B-cycle as in eq. (2.10), has a simple pole22
  22                                                                                 1
                                                                                           H
    The definition of the residue for a one-form ω(z) at a point x is Resz=x ω(z) = 2πı̊       x
                                                                                                   ω(z), where the
integration contour is taken to be a sufficiently small circle around x.


                                                        21
      at z = x, and is holomorphic at any other point of the fundamental domain F of the
      Schottky cover. We would like the higher-genus Schottky–Kronecker forms Sj to have
      similar properties, and more precisely we would like to match the properties (4.6) and (4.7)
      satisfied by Enriquez’ higher-genus connection form, or rather by its components Kj . The
      quasiperiodicity condition which we will require is therefore

                        Sj (γk z, x, ⃗
                                     w|G) = wk Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                                         w|G) ,   j, k = 1, . . . , h ,       (5.4)

      which matches Enriquez’ condition upon identifying wj = ebj . Moreover, the Schot-
                                    w|G) will be required to have a simple pole in F at z = x
      tky–Kronecker forms Sj (z, x, ⃗
      with residue
                                       Res Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                                     w|G) = 1 .                          (5.5)
                                          z=x

      One can show that there exist h linearly independent Kronecker forms that satisfy the
      quasiperiodicity and residue requirement [59], hence the corresponding index j.

   • Working with formal variables. As with the quasiperiodicity requirement above, we
     would like to match our construction with the connection of Enriquez, hence our Schot-
     tky–Kronecker forms should depend on non-commuting variables bi . These serve as the
     power-counting variables which will be used to find an expansion into integration kernels
     in § 5.4.
      The Kronecker function at genus one included a pole in its power-counting variable α that
      was cancelled in eq. (2.15) in order to perform the expansion. A similar property will be
      true for the Schottky–Kronecker forms at higher genera, as they will contain poles in the
      power-counting variables. More precisely, the jth Schottky–Kronecker form Sj will have a
      pole in the variable bj , in order to match the residue (4.7) of Enriquez’ connection form.

5.2   The Schottky–Kronecker forms
As mentioned in § 4.1, on a genus-one Riemann surface Bernard’s connection form (4.3) is closely
related to the Kronecker function (2.9). Both Bernard’s formula and the representation (2.11)
of the Kronecker function rely on a Schottky parametrization of the surface. Recall that for a
complex torus of modulus τ , with q = e2πı̊τ , one can consider the Schottky cover constructed
out of a pair of concentric circles of radii |q| = e−2πIm(τ ) and 1, as described and pictured in
§ 3.2.2. For this configuration, the Schottky group is generated by the scaling transformation
γ1 z := qz.
    It is instructive for the generalization to be considered below to explicitly match expressions
(4.3) and (2.11) [60]. To do so, we set the twist homomorphism of eq. (4.3) to be

                                             g(γ1 ) = w,                                      (5.6)

where w is a formal variable; this uniquely determines g(γ) for every γ. Then, using the
coordinate z and pole location x on the concentric Schottky cover, Bernard’s Kronecker function




                                                  22
(4.3) can be related to the expression (2.11) of the Kronecker function by
                                                                                       
  X qn                   1     (z/x)        w       X
               w−n = −                −         +      (w−n (z/x)m − wn (z/x)−m ) q mn 
       qnz − x           z 1 − (z/x) 1 − w
  n∈Z                                                          n,m>0                                             (5.7)
                           1
                        =       F (ξ − χ, α|τ ),
                          2πı̊z

where the first equality can be formally23 obtained by splitting the sum into positive and negative
terms, and expanding the denominators as power series, and the second equality follows from
eq. (2.11) after identifying ξ and χ on the fundamental parallelogram with z and x on the
concentric Schottky cover via z = exp(2πı̊ξ), x = exp(2πı̊χ), and setting w = exp(−2πı̊α)
(cf. eq. (2.12)). Accordingly, the ratio (z/x) translates into the difference ξ − χ corresponding to
shifting the pole on the fundamental parallelogram, and we can set x = 1 to match the common
convention χ = 0 in the genus-one case. The overall factor of (2πı̊z)−1 in eq. (5.7) compensates
for the change of variables in the one-form dz = 2πı̊zdξ, yielding

                                        KB (z, x = 1|g) = F (ξ, α|τ ) dξ ,                                       (5.8)

where the twist homomorphism g was defined in eq. (5.6). Let us emphasize again that the
above equivalence hinges on the concentric configuration of the two Schottky circles described
in § 3.2.2, which implies the Schottky generator γ1 to be a scaling transformation.
    Being based on placing pairs of circles on the Riemann sphere, the Schottky parametrization
should be invariant under the Mœbius action of σ ∈ PSL(2, C): two Schottky parametrizations
given in terms of circles and generators {Ci , Ci′ , σi } and {σ(Ci ), σ(Ci′ ), σγi σ −1 } will describe
the same Riemann surface. Correspondingly, we would like the Schottky–Kronecker form S
mentioned in the previous section to satisfy

                                    S(z, x, w|G) = S(σz, σx, σw|σGσ −1 )                                         (5.9)

for any Mœbius transformation σ.
    Still remaining at genus one, let us introduce the manifestly Mœbius-invariant generalization
of Bernard’s form:
                                            X d(γz) P1 − x
                          S(z, x, w|G) :=                      W (γ −1 ) ,                 (5.10)
                                               γz − x P1 − γz
                                                   γ∈G

where P1 is one of the fixed points24 of the Schottky generator γ1 . Furthermore, W : γ1n 7→
wn maps Schottky generators to (in general: non-commuting) variables to keep track of the
monodromies. The Schottky–Kronecker form is therefore a formal power series in w and w−1 .
The Kronecker form in eq. (5.10) can be shown to be Mœbius invariant for any configuration of
two circles on the Riemann sphere parametrizing a genus-one Schottky uniformization by using
the transformation rules (3.20). When choosing the concentric arrangement from above, one of
the fixed points of the generator γ1 z = qz is P1 = ∞ (cf. § 3.2.2), which lets the additional term
compared to eq. (4.3) disappear.
    Below, we will customarily use an alternative version of eq. (5.10), where no Schottky group
  23
     The sum defining the left-hand side is not absolutely convergent, one needs to make sense of it for the
parameters in an appropriate region (see [36, Sec. 3], as well as the discussions around eqs. (2.9) and (3.7) of [40]).
  24
     The definition is independent of which of the two fixed points is used.




                                                          23
elements γ ∈ G appear within the differential:
                                              X       dz γP1 − γx
                             S(z, x, w|G) =                        W (γ) .                      (5.11)
                                                    z − γx γP1 − z
                                              γ∈G


Eqs. (5.10) and (5.11) are related by relabeling γ 7→ γ −1 and applying a Mœbius transformation,
thereby moving the explicit dependence on Schottky generators γ from z to x.
   The Mœbius-invariant expression (5.11) can be generalized to genus h > 1 as follows: let G
be the Schottky group corresponding to a genus-h Riemann surface, which is generated by γj ,
j = 1, . . . , h. For each j we introduce a Schottky–Kronecker form
                           X d(γz) Pj − x               X dz γPj − γx
                 w|G) :=
       Sj (z, x, ⃗                          W (γ −1 ) =                 W (γ) ,                 (5.12)
                             γz − x Pj − γz              z − γx γPj − z
                           γ∈G                              γ∈G

where each Pj is a fixed point of the j-th Schottky generator γj . In analogy to eq. (5.10),
W : γin11 · · · γinss 7→ win11 · · · winss maps Schottky generators to non-commutative variables wj and
thus implements how the monodromies are kept track of by non-commutative variables.

5.3   Properties of Schottky–Kronecker forms
In this section we discuss properties of the Schottky–Kronecker forms Sj defined in eq. (5.12) and
show how they can be expressed as a particular average of genus-one Kronecker forms. Along
the way we are going to comment on degenerations of the Kronecker form bridging between
different genera.

Residue and quasiperiodicity. In order to compare our construction with the connection
form of Enriquez (see § 4.2), we (formally) compute the residues and the quasiperiodicity, i.e. the
monodromies around the B-cycles, of the Schottky–Kronecker forms.
    The only summand contributing to the computation of the residue of Sj at z = x is γ = id,
so that one finds
                                     Res Sj (γk z, x, ⃗
                                                      w|G) = 1 .                            (5.13)
                                       z=x

If γk is the generator of the Schottky group G which corresponds to the cycle Bk , then the
corresponding quasiperiodicity is given by

                                 Sj (γk z, x, ⃗
                                              w|G) = wk Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                                                  w|G) ,                        (5.14)

which is obtained by relabeling γ 7→ γγk−1 in eq. (5.11), so that γγk z 7→ γz.
   When moving the pole location x along a B-cycle, one instead finds

                    Sj (z, γk x, ⃗                w|G)(wk−1 − 1) + Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                 w|G) = Sk (z, x, ⃗                          w|G) .             (5.15)

as shown in Appendix B.1. The difference between eqs. (5.14) and (5.15) can be traced back
to the action of the generator γk on the fixed point Pj = limn→∞ γjn z when using eq. (5.12).
At genus one, however, γ1 P1 = P1 , which leads to S1 (z, γ1 x, w1 |G1 ) = S1 (z, x, w1 |G1 )w1−1 as
expected from setting j = k = 1 in eq. (5.15).




                                                     24
Figure 4: Degeneration of a torus into a Riemann sphere with two marked points by pinching the
A-cycle of the torus, corresponding to the limit τ →ı̊∞.


Averaging of lower genus objects. Using partial fractioning, the components (5.12) of the
Schottky–Kronecker forms can be rewritten as
                                       X  dz        dz
                                                          
                      Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                w|G) =           −          W (γ) ,                (5.16)
                                           z − γx z − γPj
                                               γ∈G

which can be seen as averages of genus-zero integration kernels over the Schottky group.
   Formally25 , the above form can be integrated, yielding
                    Z z
                                                 (z − γx)(z0 − γPj )
                                         X                          
                        Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                  w|G) =   log                         W (γ) .           (5.17)
                     z0                          (z − γPj )(z0 − γx)
                                               γ∈G

    At genus one, the analytic behaviour of the Kronecker function in the variable w can be
controlled: recall that, for w = exp(2πı̊α), one has the asymptotic behaviour F (z, α|τ ) ∼ 1/α
as α → 0. Upon canceling this pole, F can be Taylor-expanded to generate the integration
kernels g (n) as in eq. (2.15). Due to the non-commutative nature of the variables wi for genus
h > 1, we cannot give a complex-analytic meaning to Sj as a function of these variables, and it is
therefore not clear from the representation (5.16) how to replace the pole-subtraction operation
from genus one and define a generating series of higher-genus integration kernels. To surmount
this obstacle, we formally manipulate the defining equation of the Schottky–Kronecker form in
order to express it in terms of genus-one objects. This can conveniently be done by writing
Schottky group elements γ ∈ G as γ = γjn γ̃ with γ̃ ∈ Gj \ G and n ∈ Z (cf. § 3.2.1 for the
definition of Gj ). The resulting expression for the Kronecker forms reads

                                          X        X                       d(γjn γ̃z) P1 − x
                    Sj (z, x, ⃗
                              w|G) =                     W (γ̃ −1 γj−n )
                                                                           γjn γ̃z − x P1 − γjn γ̃z
                                        γ̃∈Gj \G n∈Z
                                          X
                                    =              W (γ̃ −1 )S(γ̃z, x, wj |Gj ) ,                          (5.18)
                                        γ̃∈Gj \G


where S(z, x, wj |Gj ) denotes the (only) Schottky–Kronecker form defined on the Schottky cover
with group Gj of a genus-one Riemann surface. This shows that in the same way as we identified
the Kronecker form as a weighted average of genus-zero integration kernels, it can also be seen
as an average of genus-one Kronecker forms. By combining this observation with the analytic
control that we have on the genus-one Kronecker form, we will be able to define higher-genus
integration kernels in § 5.4 below.
  25
    This formula can be given an analytic meaning at genus one, and its specialization to the concentric Schottky
cover, with z0 = x = P1−1 = 0, coincides with Levin’s generating function of depth-one elliptic polylogarithms [31]
(see also [32, Sec. 6.1]).



                                                           25
Figure 5: A surface of genus two in the Schottky parametrization degenerates into a genus one surface by
shrinking a pair of Schottky circles corresponding to an A-cycle to the two fixed points of their associated
Mœbius transformation.


Degeneration limits. An important feature of the Schottky cover is a prescription for un-
derstanding the degeneration of the Kronecker form when shrinking an A-cycle to a point. At
genus one, this process corresponds to taking τ → i∞, which implies γ1 : z 7→ 0 = P1 and
γ1−1 : z 7→ ∞ = P1′ (cf. § 3.2.2).
    When considering degenerations of higher-genus surfaces, this procedure gets more involved.
On the Schottky cover, however, such a prescription is readily available: degenerating the surface
by shrinking the cycle Aj corresponds to taking the limit where γj : z 7→ Pj and γj−1 : z 7→ Pj′
for every z, while all other generators remain inert. This means that we shrink the j-th pair of
Schottky circles to their fixed points Pj , Pj′ , as illustrated in Figure 5 for a degeneration from
genus two to genus one.
    When testing the behaviour of the Kronecker form Sk when degenerating along the cycle Aj ,
we have to distinguish between the situations j = k and j ̸= k:

   • If j ̸= k, we find that the term γPk − γx vanishes if γ contains the Schottky genera-
     tor γj , since it would map both terms to the same point. As a result, defining G̃ =
     {γin11 · · · γinkk | nℓ ∈ Z, iℓ ̸= j}, we find for the degeneration of a genus-h Kronecker form

                                       X        dz γPk − γx
             Sk (z, x, ⃗
                       w|Gγj →Pj ) =                         W (γ) = Sk (z, x, {wi }i̸=j |G̃) ,      (5.19)
                                              z − γx γPk − z
                                       γ∈G̃

      recovering the corresponding Kronecker form at genus h − 1 with the Schottky group to
      the degenerated surface.

   • In the case j = k, we expect the result to be different, knowing that the h − 1 Kronecker
     forms available at genus h − 1 are already accounted for. Indeed, by writing γ = γ̃γjn with




                                                       26
        γ̃ ∈ G/Gj and by using properties of the fixed points we find the degeneration

                                        X X           dz      γ̃γjn Pj − γ̃γjn x
            Sj (z, x, ⃗
                      w|Gγj →Pj ) =                                              W (γ̃γjn )
                                                   z − γ̃γjn x γ̃γjn Pj − z
                                     γ̃∈G/Gj n∈Z
                 X           dz   γ̃Pj − γ̃Pj′      X
                                                        n
                                                            X                       dz γ̃Pj − γ̃x
            =                                W (γ̃)   w j +                                        W (γ̃) .    (5.20)
                          z − γ̃Pj′ γ̃Pj − z                                      z − γ̃x γ̃Pj − z
                γ̃∈G/Gj                                  n<0            γ̃∈G/Gj


        In the above expression, the first term corresponds to the summation over n < 0, which
        turned γjn x 7→ Pj′ . The second term corresponds to n = 0, and all contributions with
        n > 0 vanish due to the appearance of γ̃Pj − γ̃Pj = 0 in the numerator. Furthermore,
        for both terms, we find that any element γ̃ containing an appearance of γj will make the
        numerator vanish, allowing us to replace the sum over G/Gj by a sum over G̃, where G̃ is
        the Schottky group of the degenerated surface. Thus, the degeneration limit becomes

                                                     X          dz    γ̃Pj − γ̃Pj′        X
                           Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                     w|Gγj →Pj ) =                                 W (γ̃)   wjn
                                                             z − γ̃Pj′ γ̃Pj − z
                                                     γ̃∈G̃                                    n<0
                                                         X          dz γ̃Pj − γ̃x
                                                     +                             W (γ̃) .                    (5.21)
                                                                  z − γ̃x γ̃Pj − z
                                                         γ̃∈G̃

        Both of these terms resemble the Kronecker forms themselves, although they both involve
        a fixed point which is now at one of the punctures resulting from shrinking the cycle.

Fay identity at genus one. At genus one, the Fay identity (2.13) for the Kronecker function
can be deduced by formally26 partial-fractioning the representation on a concentric Schottky
cover given by eq. (5.7):

                                                     1          1
  F (ξ − χ, α|τ )F (ξ˜ − χ̃, α̃|τ ) =
                                        X X
                                                       m
                                                         wm              w̃m̃
                                                   z−q x    z̃ − q m̃ x̃
                                        m∈Z m̃∈Z
        X X          1                   1                                                                     (5.22)
  =                    m
                         (ww̃)m        m̃−m
                                                   w̃m̃−m + (· ↔ ˜·)
                   z−q x        z̃ − q      z x̃/x
        m∈Z m̃∈Z

  = F (ξ − χ, α + α̃|τ )F (ξ˜ − χ̃ − ξ + χ, α̃|τ ) + F (ξ˜ − χ̃, α + α̃|τ )F (ξ − χ − ξ˜ + χ̃, α|τ ) ,

where (· ↔ ˜·) corresponds to the term where variables with and without tilde are swapped.
    Unfortunately, this approach to deriving a Fay identity is not successful for higher genera:
at genus one, the fixed points are invariant under the action of the Schottky group, so it can
be ignored how they transform by going to the concentric cover. Furthermore, since there is
only a single generator involved at genus one, the actions thereof are commutative and can be
combined between the two Kronecker forms. These properties are lost once one goes to higher
genera, as fixed points of one Schottky generator are not invariant under the action of another
Schottky generator and because successive application of different Schottky generators is not
commutative anymore.

5.4      Expansion into kernels
We would like now to extract from each Kronecker form Sj , which is a formal object, a family
of meromorphic differentials with at most simple poles on the Schottky cover, i.e. analytic
 26
      This manipulation ignores the fact that the Poincaré series considered are not absolutely convergent.


                                                             27
objects, which will serve as integration kernel for higher-genus analogues of polylogarithms.
We will succeed in doing this in the case of hyperelliptic polylogarithms on real hyperelliptic
curves. Similar to the conventions of refs. [41, 42], we set wi = exp(bi ), with non-commutative
variables bi . At genus one, the variable b = log(w) differs from the α notation of eq. (2.15) only
by a factor of −2πı̊. The idea then is that one can formally cancel the poles in the variables
bi from the genus-one Kronecker forms in the expression (5.18), and obtain formal series in
non-commutative variables, whose coefficients will be the sought-for integration kernels.
    Let us be more precise here: as pointed out in § 2.2.1, the classical Kronecker form F (ξ, α|τ )
has a pole at both ξ = 0 and α = 0. Since in eq. (5.18) we express the higher-genus general-
izations of the Kronecker form as averages over a Schottky group of the (genus-one) Kronecker
form, formally the pole in the formal variable bj is inherited by each Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                                                                 w|G). We can then
therefore (formally) cancel this pole by multiplying the Schottky–Kronecker form by bj from the
right27 , obtaining the following expansion in the non-commutative variables bi :
                                              X
                       Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                 w|G)bj =            W (γ)S(γ −1 z, x, wj |Gj ) bj                              (5.23a)
                                            γ∈G/Gj
                                                    ∞
                                                    X        h
                                                             X
                                         =: −2πı̊                        ωi1 ···is j (z, x|G) bi1 · · · bis ,   (5.23b)
                                                    s=0 i1 ,··· ,is =1


where the first equality is obtained from eq. (5.18) by relabeling γ 7→ γ −1 which also changes
the summation domain Gj \G 7→ G/Gj .
   It remains now to determine the coefficient of a particular word bi1 · · · bis in the formal
expansion (5.23b). In order to do this, it is helpful to write the word as well as the Schottky
element γ in eq. (5.23a) in a way that groups repeated consecutive entries:

                                                word = bni11 · · · bniss                                        (5.24a)
                                                     γ = γjm1 1 · · · γjml l                                    (5.24b)

where nk > 0 label the lengths of the individual groups of consecutive repeated letters within the
words in eq. (5.24a), mk ̸= 0 label the lengths of the individual groups of consecutive repeated
generators in eq. (5.24b), and s and l denote the numbers of groups. In particular, one is
allowed to have mk < 0, to account for inverses that appear in the element of the Schottky
group. Uniqueness of the notation is ensured by requiring ik ̸= ik+1 and jk ̸= jk+1 .
     By Taylor-expanding a genus-one Schottky–Kronecker forms, we obtain integration kernels
s(k) (z, x|Gj ) on the Schottky cover of the genus-one Riemann surface obtained from the Schottky
subgroup Gj ⊂ G generated by the j-th generator γj :
                                                              ∞
                                                              X
                                    S(z, x, wj |Gj ) bj =:          bkj s(k) (z, x|Gj ).                         (5.25)
                                                              k=0

These differentials are related to the standard genus-one kernels (2.15) via28

                         s(n) (z, x|Gj ) = (−2πı̊)1−n g (n) (u(z, x|Gj ), τ (Gj )) ω(z|Gj ),                     (5.26)

where u and ω are Abel’s map and the holomorphic differential on the Schottky cover of a genus-
 27
      Multiplication must be from the right because of our convention that (γ1 γ2 )(z) = γ1 (γ2 (z)).
 28
      The normalization factor of (−2πı̊)1−n is due to the expansion in b ∼ −2πı̊α.



                                                            28
one Riemann surface as in § 3.2.1, and τ (Gj ) is the modular parameter of the corresponding
complex torus.
                                 P
    For a formal power series w aw · w over words w in non-commutative letters, with corre-
sponding coefficients aw , denote by [w′ ] the operation which extracts the coefficient aw′ of w′
from the series, i.e. aw′ = [w′ ] w aw · w. Then, by placing eq. (5.23b) on the LHS, and plugging
                                 P

in eq. (5.26) for eq. (5.23a) on the RHS, we can isolate the word bni11 · · · bniss to find29

                                                                           δjis ns
                                         1 n1                  X            X
           ωi1 ···is j (z, x|G) = −         [bi1 · · · bniss ]                       W (γ) bkis s(k) (γ −1 z, x|Gj ).             (5.27)
                                        2πi
                                                               γ∈G/Gj k=0


What remains is to find the coefficient of bni11 · · · bniss in W (γ). We can do this recursively, writing

  C(bni11 · · · bniss , γjm1 1 · · · γjml l )
               
               
               
                  s=0:                   1 (empty word),
               
               s ̸= 0 = l : 0 (non-empty word, identity element),
               
           =                                   n1        ns     m2           ml
                                                                                                                                     (5.28)
                  i 1  ̸ = j 1  :        C(b  i  · · · bi  , γj2   · · · γ  jl  )      (first   letters     don’t  match),
                                          Pn11 (m1 )ks
               
               
               
                                                                 n1 −k
               i = j :                                                   · · · bniss , γjm2 2 · · · γjml l ) (first letters match),
               
                     1        1               k=0 k!       C(b   i1

where using the base cases for empty words and elements, one can parse the groups of repeated
generators in the element one at a time, using the coefficients coming from the expansion of the
exponential when the indices match. A detailed derivation of eq. (5.28) is given in Appendix B.2.
Putting everything together, we finally find
                                                              δjis ns
                                           1          X        X
                 ωi1 ···is j (z, x|G) = −                               C(bni11 · · · bniss −k , γ) s(k) (γ −1 z, x|Gj ).         (5.29)
                                          2πi
                                                    γ∈G/Gj k=0


The first two simplest examples are

                            1      X
       ωj (z, x|G) = −                     s(0) (γ −1 z, x|Gj ) ,                                                               (5.30a)
                           2πi
                                 γ∈G/Gj
                                  X                                                                                   
                            1                                                               X
   ωij (z, x|G) = −                         C(bi , γ)s(0) (γ −1 z, x|Gj ) + δij                    s(1) (γ −1 z, x|Gj ) ,       (5.30b)
                           2πi
                                   γ∈G/Gj                                                 γ∈G/Gj


where the coefficients of the terms in the second sum of (5.30b) are δij C(1, γ) = δij , since
the right-hand side of eq. (5.27) suggests that we find [bi ]W (γ)bj . Notice that the formula for
the kernels ωj (z, x|G) in eq. (5.30a) matches the Poincaré series representation (3.15) of the
normalized holomorphic differentials.
    From the above formula one can immediately deduce that the only genus-h kernels that
have a pole at z = x are {ωjj (z, x|G)}j=1,...,h . Only those kernels which have s(1) (z, x|Gj ) as
a summand can have a pole at x. In order for this term to have a non-zero coefficient, the
identity generator id ∈ G/Gj must contribute to the term with k = 1 in (5.28). This can only
happen when s = 1 and is = j: kernels with s > 1 will not have a contribution from the identity
element, and kernels with is ̸= j will not have a contribution with k = 1. The rest of the kernels
  29
    Notice that we may have contributions to bn           ns
                                                   is = b j
                                                     s
                                                             also from the summation over G/Gj , because the fact
that the last letter of a word in G/Gj cannot be wj does not imply that bj cannot be the last letter after expanding
the exponentials, as wk = 1 + bk + · · · . This explains the summation over k on the right-hand side.


                                                                   29
are holomorphic in the fundamental domain F, and have at most simple poles on the Schottky
cover Ω(G).

5.5    Relation to Enriquez’ connection
This subsection is dedicated to translating and connecting our findings to the connection of
Enriquez [41]. Let us combine the Schottky–Kronecker forms Sj defined in eq. (5.12) into one
object which generates all the differentials by making use of h extra formal variables a1 , . . . , ah :
                  h
                  X                                       ∞
                                                          X       h
                                                                  X         h
                                                                            X
   K(z, x) := −         Sj (z, x, ⃗
                                  w|G) bj aj /2πı̊ =                               ωi1 ···is j (z, x|G) bi1 · · · bis aj .    (5.31)
                  j=1                                     s=0 i1 ,··· ,is =1 j=1

   It follows from the quasiperiodicity and the residue formulas satisfied by the Schottky–Kronecker
forms, discussed in § 5.3, that K(z, x) satisfies

                                          K(γk z, x) = ebk K(z, x) ,                                                         (5.32a)
                                                                  h
                                                                  X
                                        Res K(z, x) = −                 bj aj /2πı̊ ,                                        (5.32b)
                                        z=x
                                                                  j=1

which are precisely the conditions (4.6), (4.7) that uniquely determine the connection of En-
riquez, and which imply the following conditions coefficient-wise:
                                                          s
                                                          X
                              ωi1 ···is j (γk z, x|G) =         δi1 ···il k ωil+1 ···is j (z, x|G) ,                         (5.33a)
                                                          l=0
                           Res ωi1 ···is j (z, x|G) = −δs1 δi1 j /2πı̊ .                                                     (5.33b)
                            z=x

These conditions uniquely determine the family {ωi1 ···is j (z, x)} of meromorphic differentials on
the Schottky cover with at most simple poles at z = γx defined in Enriquez’ original paper [41]
via a non-constructive method (cf. eq. (4.4)), whose iterated integrals should be higher-genus
analogues of the elliptic polylogarithms Γ̃.
     In other words, we have established that the Enriquez differentials ωi1 ···is j (z, x) can be iden-
tified with our ωi1 ···is j (z, x|G), provided that the latter can be promoted from formal objects to
meromorphic differentials on the Schottky cover, i.e. that their defining series converge. This is
possible in special cases, such as that of real hyperelliptic curves, as argued in § 6.2.

5.6    Hyperelliptic polylogarithms from Schottky–Kronecker forms
Let us introduce the shorthand notation ωin (z, x|G), where n indicates the length of the multi-
index in . Whenever ωin (z, x|G) define analytic objects, one can consider the iterated integrals
                                  Z z                                           
     Γ̃ ixn11,, ..., ink
                ..., xk  ; z|G   :=     ω in1 (t, x1 |G) Γ̃   in2 , ..., ink
                                                               x2 , ..., xk  ; t|G   , Γ̃ ( ; z|G) := 1 , (5.34)
                                   z0

where the integration basepoint z0 is a point on the universal cover of the surface, which may
also be chosen to be a preimage of x, in which case one needs to regularize the integral. As
already mentioned, we restrict our attention to real hyperelliptic curves, in which case these
integrals make sense, and we call them hyperelliptic polylogarithms. They generalize the elliptic
polylogarithms Γ̃ from [33].


                                                             30
   As shown in eq. (5.29), the kernels ωin (z, x|G) can be expressed as averages over the Schottky
group of genus-one kernels. Therefore, the above iterated integrals of the higher-genus kernels
can be expressed as similar sums of iterated integrals over genus-one kernels of the form
         Z z                                Z z1                                    Z z2         Z zk −1
               s(n1 ) (γ1 z1 , x1 |Gj1 )              s(n2 ) (γ2 z2 , x2 |Gj2 )            ...             s(nk ) (γk zk , xk |Gjk ) .           (5.35)
          z0                                  z0                                      z0          z0

We want now to make use of the relation (5.26) to rewrite eq. (5.35) in terms of the standard
genus-one kernels g (k) . To do so, let us introduce the notations τji := τ (Gji ) and rik := uji ◦ γi ◦
γk−1 ◦ u−1
        jk , where uji is a shorthand for Abel’s map on the Schottky cover of group Gj
                                                                                                            !
                                                             1                      z − Pji xi − Pj′i
                                           u(z, xi |Gji ) =      log                                             ,                               (5.36)
                                                            2πı̊                    z − Pj′i xi − Pji

where Pji and Pj′i are the fixed points of the ji -th Schottky generator. Then eq. (5.35) can also
be written (up to the factor (−2πı̊)k−n1 −...−nk ) as
 Z t                                                  Z t1                                                Z t2         Z tk−1
                                           ′                                                   ′
         dt1 g   (n1 )
                         (r1k (t1 )|τj1 ) r1k (t1 )          dt2 g   (n2 )
                                                                             (r2k (t2 )|τj2 ) r2k (t2 )          ...            dtk g (nk ) (tk |τjk ) ,
    t0                                                  t0                                                 t0           t0
                                                                                            (5.37)
where we used that rkk reduces to the identity in the innermost integral. The end points t and
t0 are given by t = u(γk z, xk |Gjk ), and t0 = u(γk z0 , xk |Gjk ).
    Due to the presence of the maps rik in the integration, the given expression is not an elliptic
polylogarithm, but rather its generalization, where the endpoints of the intermediate integra-
tions are shifted by the Mœbius transformations γi . Summation of these functions over (cosets
of) the Schottky group with appropriate combinatorial factors then gives rise to hyperelliptic
polylogarithms. Notice that such an expression could be taken as a formal definition of eq. (5.34)
for any Riemann surface.
    In § 6.2 we argue that the Poincaré series (5.29) converges under certain assumptions. More
precisely, under these assumptions we expect absolute convergence, uniformly in the compact
subsets, so that the series define meromorphic differentials, and all the formal manipulations
on the series are justified. Moreover, uniform convergence implies that one can interchange
integration and summation, so that also the series of genus-one iterated integrals (5.35) which
compute hyperelliptic polylogarithms are convergent away from the singularities. These series
can be seen as generalizations of the series which define elliptic polylogarithms as averages of
genus-zero polylogarithms in the classical approach of [29–32].
    Since we express hyperelliptic polylogarithms as Schottky averaging sums of elliptic poly-
logarithms, the question of the regularization when the basepoint z0 is placed at a pole of
the kernels may be tackled via the regularization mentioned in § 2.2. Applying the tangential
basepoint regularization prescription directly on eq. (5.34) should yield the same result.


6        Numerical evaluation of hyperelliptic polylogarithms
Representing the Kronecker form in the Schottky parametrization opens up the possibility to
evaluate the resulting hyperelliptic polylogarithms numerically. In this section we discuss a
possible approach towards a numerical implementation of the objects constructed so far.




                                                                               31
6.1   A numerical approach
From an algebraic curve to the Schottky parametrization. Many possible applications
of hyperelliptic polylogarithms – foremost Feynman integral calculations – rely on representa-
tions of higher-genus Riemann surfaces as algebraic curves. In order to be able to apply our
results to this context, one therefore needs to be able to find a Schottky uniformization of a
given algebraic curve. In general, the question of existence of a uniformization with a classi-
cal Schottky group is not settled. However, there exists an algorithm to obtain a non-classical
(i.e. based on Jordan loops that are not necessarily circles) Schottky uniformization of a given
algebraic curve [54]. As it was mentioned in § 3.2, the convergence of the Poincaré series gener-
ally is an open question, but it is guaranteed at least for circle decomposable Schottky groups.
In Appendix A we review a numerical algorithm for real hyperelliptic curves with real roots that
results in a manifestly circle decomposable Schottky group. This algorithm can be extended to
arbitrary real hyperelliptic curves [56].

Functions on a curve. Provided that we have a description of a (real) algebraic curve in
terms of the Schottky parametrization, it is then straightforward to implement various objects
defined on the curve. The expressions (3.14), (3.16) and (3.18) can be exploited to numerically
implement the canonical basis of holomorphic differentials, Abel’s map and the period matrix.
The convergence of these formulas all rely on the convergence of the Poincaré series expression
of the holomorphic differentials. We will take a closer look at the convergence aspects in § 6.2.

Hyperelliptic polylogarithms. One of the main results of this article is an expression for
higher-genus integration kernels of hyperelliptic polylogarithms in terms of Schottky averaging
sums of the genus-one kernels (5.29). Convergence of these expression is argued, and illustrated
with numerical tests, in § 6.2.
    Having at disposal a tool to numerically evaluate the higher-genus kernels, one may straight-
forwardly numerically evaluate the hyperelliptic polylogarithms (5.34) defined as iterated inte-
grals of these kernels. However, it is in practice more efficient to use the fact that the kernels
can be expressed as Schottky averaged sums of the genus-one kernels, which leads to computing
hyperelliptic polylogarithms as Schottky averaged sums of the elliptic ones from eq. (5.37). The
convergence of this series is guaranteed by the convergence of the series defining the underlying
kernels. In this way, one can exploit all sorts of known efficient methods and tricks to compute
elliptic polylogarithms, such as modular properties (that allow to shift the modular parameter τ
to the fundamental domain and make the q-expansion converge quickly) and regularization
schemes.

An implementation. In the subsequent sections the numerical evaluations of the functions
on a Schottky parametrization is performed. We use a numerical implementation that goes along
the lines of the previous paragraphs using Python, in particular SciPy (a scientific library for
Python), and – for time-critical computations – C with GSL (GNU scientific library). All the
plots are produced using matplotlib, a mathematical drawing library for Python.




                                               32
               101
                                                                                                        10−2
           10−3

           10−7
                                                                                                        10−5
          10−11




                                                                                       Summand for Γ̃
          10−15

   |γ 0 (z)|
          10−19
                                                                                                        10−8


          10−23
                                                                                                        10−11
          10−27

          10−31
                           y 2 = x(x − 1)(x − 6)(x − 7)(x − 12)                                         10−14
          10−35
                           y 2 = x(x − 10)(x − 11)(x − 30)(x − 31)
          10−39
                     100         101               102                103   104                                 100   101              102           103
                                       Schottky group element index                                                   Schottky group element index



Figure 6: Illustration of convergence for the holomorphic differentials and polylogarithms. The hori-
zontal axis on both graphs enumerates the Schottky group elements. In the left plot the vertical axis
measures the absolute values of γ ′ evaluated at a generic point. The blue line corresponds to the example
curve (6.1), whereas the red line is plotted for an alternative curve (see the legend). In the right
                                                                                                     figure
the vertical axis corresponds to the absolute value of (5.35) for the polylogarithm Γ̃ (2x1) ; z|G at depth
1 evaluated at a generic point with the basepoint z0 = 0 and the pole x = −ı̊.


6.2             Convergence of the Poincaré series
In this section we discuss the question of convergence of various functions defined on a Schottky
uniformized Riemann surface earlier. We choose a particular genus-two (real) hyperelliptic curve

                                                              y 2 = x(x − 1)(x − 6)(x − 7)(x − 12)                                                         (6.1)

as an example for the following computations. In order to discuss the convergence of the series
we define an ordering in the Schottky group such that for any group element of length l any
other element of length l − 1 has smaller index.

Holomorphic differentials. As it was discussed earlier, the convergence of the series (3.14)
for the holomorphic differentials is guaranteed for real hyperelliptic curves, and relies on the
behavior of the factor γ ′ (z) in the series, which decreases exponentially with the length of the
Schottky words. Since the number of Schottky group elements of the fixed length l grows
exponentially as 2h(2h − 1)l−1 , the convergence of the series is polynomial.
    This behavior in the case of the curve (6.1) is depicted in Figure 6 (left) by the blue line.
While this is a general feature for circle decomposable Schottky groups, the rate of the conver-
gence varies significantly for different Schottky groups. The red line represents another Schottky
uniformized curve, whose convergence is much faster. Generally, the speed of convergence de-
pends on the relative positions and radii of the isometric circles of the classical Schottky group:
the smaller the circles and the bigger the distances between them, the faster the convergence.
In a sense, one may view the Poincaré series as an analogue of q-expansions in the genus-one
case. There, the modular transformations SL(2, Z) can be used to shift the modular parameter τ
such that q = e2πı̊τ has a smaller absolute value, thus boosting the convergence of the expan-
sion. This gives efficient numerical algorithms to resum the q-expansions of functions on elliptic
curves with a nice modular behaviour. For higher-genus Schottky uniformized curves one may
try to relate Poincaré series over different Schottky groups, enhancing the convergence of the
numerical methods. This is particularly important to establish, because an improvement of the
precision by an order comes with a price of exponentially more terms in the Poincaré series to


                                                                                  33
                        Ci     ci       ri            γi                Pi
                                                 4.503 −7.377
                        C1   1.723    0.383                              1.680
                                               −2.613    4.503 
                                                12.505 −35.876
                        C2   2.887    0.231                              2.878
                                               −4.331     12.505

Table 1: Numerical approximation for Schottky group generators and isometric circle parameters for
the curve (6.1).


evaluate.

Kronecker form. When considering the Schottky–Kronecker forms of (5.12), one may notice
that if we strip the W (γ) term, the resulting series is not a Poincaré series: the meromorphic
function in the summand contains a pole in the singular set of G, over which the summation is
performed. This makes the stripped series diverge.
    Convergence can be restored in the genus-one case by an appropriate summation prescription
and choice of the variable w. However, in the higher genera cases we replace the single complex
variable w by formal non-commuting variables wi , and we treat the series (5.12) as a formal
series, for which the problem of convergence is not well-posed.

Hyperelliptic polylogarithms. Although the Schottky–Kronecker forms can only be treated
as a formal series, it makes sense to ask whether the series defining the higher-genus kernels
(5.29) of the hyperelliptic polylogarithms, which are produced by formal manipulations on the
Schottky–Kronecker forms, do converge. Formally, the resulting Schottky averaging sums for
the kernels do not form Poincaré series, which does not allow us to draw a conclusion about the
convergence right away. We argue that the convergence in the real hyperelliptic case still holds
as follows.
    In (5.29) the summation over k occurs over a finite domain, so this summation does not
affect the convergence. The remaining series over the coset G/Gj is similar to a general (−2)-
dimensional Poincaré series (3.12), for which convergence holds for any circle-decomposable
Schottky group, and the one-form s(n) (z, x|Gj ) has only a single pole for n = 1 at z = x, which
does not belong to the limiting set of the coset. However, there are two features that make
the series non-Poincaré: due to the combinatorial factor (5.28) some of the terms in the series
vanish and there is an additional factor in the sum that grows polynomially with the length
of the Schottky words. We argue that neither of the features spoils the convergence as the
term γ ′ (z) within the differentials s(n) (z, x|Gj ) gets smaller exponentially with the length of the
Schottky words, which makes the series absolutely convergent.
    Now that the convergence of the series defining the higher-genus kernels is established, the
resulting hyperelliptic polylogarithms are well-defined, and can be computed by the series over
the terms (5.37), which is also convergent. While we refrain from writing explicit expressions
as sums of the genus-one polylogarithms due to complicated combinatorics, a numerical test of
                                                                                                  
the convergence is given in Figure 6 (right) for the particular polylogarithm Γ̃ (2x1) ; z|G on
the curve (6.1). The summand indeed exhibits an expected exponential decay and the missing
parts of the plot represent the exact 0 terms due to combinatorial factors.




                                                    34
            4                                                             4
                                                         6                                                             6


            3                                                             3

                                                         5                                                             5
            2                                                             2


                                                         4                                                             4
            1                                                             1



      Im    0
                                                         3
                                                             arg    Im    0
                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                           arg

           −1                                                            −1

                                                         2                                                             2

           −2                                                            −2


                                                         1                                                             1
           −3                                                            −3



           −4                                                            −4
                                                         0                                                             0
                −4   −3   −2   −1   0    1   2   3   4                        −4   −3   −2   −1   0    1   2   3   4
                                    Re                                                            Re

                                                                             
Figure 7: Plots of the polylogarithms Γ̃ (1x1) ; z|G (left) and Γ̃ (2x1) ; z|G (right) with the pole x = −ı̊
and the basepoint z0 = 0. The color and brightness represent the argument and absolute value of the
polylogarithms evaluated at a given point. The circles of the same color and different line style represent
a pair of the isometric Schottky circles, the black point is located at the base point z0 and the white
point denotes the point x.


6.3        An example
                                                                                                  
As a proof of concept, we depict two depth-one polylogarithms Γ̃ (1x1) ; z|G and Γ̃ (2x1) ; z|G
defined on the curve (6.1) with the pole x = −ı̊ and the basepoint z0 = 0 in Figure 7 left
and right respectively using our numerical implementation. The Schottky uniformization of the
curve is given by the algorithm from Appendix A that yields two circles C1 and C2 (blue and
red solid lines respectively) and their images under the Schottky generators γ1 and γ2 given by
the dashed lines of the corresponding color. The centers ci and radii ri of the circles Ci as well
as the Schottky generators γi in the fundamental representation and the corresponding fixed
points Pi are given in Table 1.
    As it was already mentioned in § 5.4, only the kernels ωjj (z, x|G) have a pole in the funda-
mental domain at z = x. This can be observed in Figure 7: in the left plot the polylogarithm
              
Γ̃ (1x1) ; z|G demonstrates a branch cut stretching from the point x = −ı̊, the pole of the un-
derlying kernel, since it involves the genus one kernel s(1) in the sum (5.29) that contains the
pole. Due to the quasi-periodicity, the same singularity is also observed inside the Schottky
circles, which are images of the branch cut under the translations along B-cycles. On top of that
one observes a second branch cut going between two fixed points, which represents a non-trivial
monodromy of the polylogarithm along the A-cycles. On the contrary, in the right figure the
                       
plot for Γ̃ (2x1) ; z|G is given, the kernel for which has the last weight j = 1 repeated only once.
Therefore the corresponding kernel essentially consists of only s(0) genus-one kernels, which are
proportional to the holomorphic forms, thus, there are no branch cuts stretching from the point
x as it is a regular point. Moreover, the branch cut between the fixed points is also absent
rendering the polylogarithm single-valued on the Schottky cover.
    For the numerical evaluation we truncated the series after all the Schottky group elements of
length l if the norm of each of the element was smaller than 10−7 , which gives a rough estimation
of the precision. For the given curve this precision requires an order of 103 Schottky group
elements. The evaluation time of a single point on the plot is of order of 10−2 seconds on a single
thread on a modern CPU. Our implementation serves the purpose of a prototype of a software
to numerically evaluate the hyperelliptic polylogarithms, which, to the best of our knowledge,
has not been done before in the literature. Being the prototype, we do not use the most efficient


                                                                   35
methods to evaluate the genus-one polylogarithms, the Poincaré series, neither do we make any
exact statements about error estimates. Therefore, further work towards implementing more
efficient algorithms [54, 61, 62] and taking the precision under control is needed for practical use
of the numerical implementation and in order to reduce the evaluation time.
     Being under heavy development, the source code is not planned to be published in the
near future. Interested readers are hereby encouraged to contact the authors for code or more
information on the implementation.


7     Conclusions
7.1    Summary
In this article we explore a generalization of the genus-one Kronecker function (2.9) to a genus-
h Riemann surface using the language of Schottky uniformization. We introduce a set of h
Schottky–Kronecker forms, and for real hyperelliptic curves we expand them into integration
kernels and relate them to the connection of Enriquez. In addition we provide numerical access
to genus-h hyperelliptic polylogarithms.
    In particular:

    • Inspired by Bernard’s connection form (4.3), we define higher-genus Schottky–Kronecker
      form at higher genera in eq. (5.12) via Poincaré series, which (formally) satisfy the analyt-
      ical constraints eqs. (5.5) and (5.4) that uniquely determine Enriquez’ connection form.
      The Schottky formulation permits easy access to finding relationships that the Schot-
      tky–Kronecker forms have to other genera, discussed among other properties in § 5.3. In
      eq. (5.18), we suggest through a formal manipulation that the Schottky–Kronecker form at
      higher genera may be identified as an average of genus-one Kronecker forms. In eq. (5.19)
      and eq. (5.20), we sketch how the Schottky–Kronecker form degenerates when an A-cycle
      of the underlying surface is shrunk down to a point.

    • The higher-genus Schottky–Kronecker forms can be expanded into formal integration ker-
      nels given by Poincaré series, using an alphabet of non-commuting letters. Under technical
      assumptions which ensure the convergent of the series, which include the case of real hy-
      perelliptic curves, we use our kernels to construct higher-genus polylogarithms in § 5.6.
      The sum of the genus-h Schottky–Kronecker forms (multiplied with appropriate letters)
      was linked to the connection from Enriquez [41] in § 5.5.

    • Combining with the averaging result from eq. (5.18), the kernels can be expressed recur-
      sively in terms of known genus-one kernels as shown in eq. (5.29). Based on this recursive
      formulation, we can numerically evaluate hyperelliptic polylogarithms in § 6.

7.2    Outlook
While our approach gives an explicit construction of hyperelliptic polylogarithms allowing for
numerical evaluations of these functions, there are several questions for future research:

    • Beyond real hyperelliptic curves. The construction of the higher-genus Kronecker
      forms and hence the higher-genus polylogarithms in this paper is constrained to the case
      of Riemann surfaces whose Schottky cover is “circle-decomposable”, which in particular
      includes all real hyperelliptic curves: for this subset of Riemann surfaces, the convergence of


                                                 36
  the Poincaré series which define the integration kernels can be guaranteed. It is important
  to explore to what extent this condition can be relaxed, allowing for the construction via
  rapidly converging Poincaré series of higher-genus polylogarithms for a wider class of the
  Riemann surfaces.

• Relationship to theta ratio. A higher-genus generalization of the Kronecker form could
  have started from the genus-one representation as a ratio of θ functions in eq. (2.9) as well.
  Taking the naive/straightforward approach results in the formula

                                                               ⃗b/2πı̊ τ
                                                                            h
      θ       ⃗              θ u(z,   p0 |τ ) − u(x, p0 |τ ) −               X
    F (z, x, −b/2πı̊|τ ) =                                                     ∂j θ(⃗0|τ )ωj (z),    (7.1)
                           θ u(z, p0 |τ ) − u(x, p0 |τ ) τ θ − ⃗b/2πı̊ τ
                                                                          
                                                                             j=1

  where u(z, p0 |τ ) has been defined in eq. (3.7) and θ is a higher-genus theta-function of odd
  charateristics, u denotes Abel’s map and ωj (z) are the holomorphic differentials on the
  genus-h surface.
  As a consequence of the Fay trisecant equation [63], this ratio satisfies a Fay identity [59]

   F θ (z, x, ⃗               ⃗ ) = F θ (z, y, ⃗
              α|τ )F θ (y, x, β|τ              α|τ )F θ (y, x, ⃗   ⃗ ) + F θ (z, x, ⃗
                                                               α + β|τ                  ⃗ )F θ (y, z, β|τ
                                                                                    α + β|τ           ⃗ )
                                                                                                      (7.2)
  for ⃗        h        ⃗
       α = C and β = u(p) − u(y) for some point p ∈ Σ.
  Expanding this ratio into kernels, however, lacks the required non-commuting structure
  that we saw for the expansion letters bi in § 5 as well as in Enriquez construction [41].
  It remains to be settled, whether a different prescription for the expansion will allow to
  remedy this drawback. Once a valid expansion is identified, one could hopefully translate
  the ratio’s Fay identity at each genus into what is known as Fay-like identities in [43]. The
  precise relation between the θ-function approach and the Schottky kernels formulated in
  this paper is under investigation.
  Let us mention in addition that the “twisted Green function” constructed in [64] in the
  context of the KZB equations precisely matches our proposal. Furthermore, eq. (7.1) is also
  remarkably similar to a function considered by Tsuchiya in [65, Eq. 2.13]; in particular, the
  cyclic products used by Tsuchiya are equivalent to cyclic products of the ratio in eq. (7.1).
  However, understanding of the precise relations and possible implications needs further
  examination.

• Fay identities. So far we have not been investigating the Fay-like identities for the
  Schottky kernels analytically. However, numerical experiments lead to a series of candidate
  relations for higher-genus Enriquez kernels. In what way they are related to the Fay
  trisecant equation, like (7.2), remains unsettled.

• Hyperelliptic MZVs. Special values of (elliptic) polylogarithms are of particular interest
  when computing physical quantities such as scattering amplitudes in field or string theory
  as reviewed in § 2. The natural question then is to study special values of hyperelliptic
  polylogarithms, i.e. hyperelliptic multiple zeta values. For instance, relations among them
  could be investigated by exploiting the numerical approximation methods proposed in this
  article. Moreover, it is known that elliptic MZVs can be written as iterated integrals
  of Eisenstein series, and have therefore an interesting modular behaviour. It would be
  interesting to investigate the dependence of hyperelliptic MZVs on the moduli of the
  surface via numerical approximation. In fact, numerical approximation itself would be

                                                 37
      boosted by having control on the modular properties of hyperelliptic MZVs. Similarly to
      the genus-one case, where the convergence of the q-expansions of various objects can be
      improved by choosing a modular parameter τ with larger imaginary part, for the higher
      genera the sums over Schottky group exhibit better convergence if the circles are small
      and far from each other. Just as the SL(2, Z) = Sp(2, Z) transformations relate different
      values of τ , the higher modular group Sp(2h, Z) should relate different Schottky groups,
      allowing us to choose those that have better convergence.

    • Application to Feynman calculations. For Feynman calculations it is convenient to
      formulate the integration kernels as differential forms on an algebraic curve, as already
      remarked in the case of Feynman integrals involving genus-one polylogarithms [33]. Re-
      cursive formulas for Enriquez’ kernels in terms of algebraically defined objects where given
      in [42]. It would be interesting to apply our numerical setup to evaluating a higher-genus
      Feynman integral like the one considered in ref. [20].

Acknowledgments
We are grateful to Yannis Moeckli and Zhi Cong Chan for various discussions. The work of
K.B., J.B. and E.I. is partially supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation through the
NCCR SwissMAP. The research of F.Z. has been partly funded by the European Union’s Horizon
2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie Sklodowska-Curie grant agreement
No 843960 for the project “HIPSAM”.




Appendix

A     From the algebraic curve to the Schottky cover
In this appendix we review a numerical algorithm to obtain a Schottky group and corresponding
isometric circles for a given real hyperelliptic curve. The methods described in the following are
a collection from the references [54, 66, 67], where the latter reference explains more technical
details about numerical calculations when going from an algebraic curve to a Schottky cover.
    We focus on hyperelliptic curves with real roots, given – for genus h – by a polynomial
equation of degree 2h + 1:

                              y 2 = (x − a1 )(x − a2 ) · · · (x − a2h+1 )                   (A.1)

where the ai ∈ R are the real roots of the polynomial and we assume them to be ordered,
i.e. a1 < a2 < . . . < a2h+1 . Technical aspects become more cumbersome once one has a
hyperelliptic curve with non-real roots.
     A visualization of the relation between an algebraic curve with real branch points and the
corresponding Schottky cover is shown in Figure 8, which is useful to refer to when reading the
following explanations.
     The starting point is an algebraic curve with real roots, as given in eq. (A.1) and the goal
is to have a procedure yielding the parameters of the Schottky uniformization corresponding to
this algebraic curve. At the end of the process, we will have a Schottky uniformization which is


                                                  38
                             a1     a2     a3               a4                    a5




                                                                                γ(z)2 − γ(0)2
                                                                          P                     
                                                            a(z) − a1 =
                                                                          γ∈G




                −z5          −z4 −z3     −z2           z1         z2      z3    z4              z5




Figure 8: Schematics of going from an algebraic curve (upper part) to a Schottky uniformization (lower
part) for the case of a genus two surface. A-cycles are drawn in red and B-cycles in blue. Note that the
dashed line in the upper figure represents the change of sheet when passing through the branch cuts of
the algebraic curve (the branch cuts are indicated by zig-zag lines in the upper part of the figure). Figure
similar as in [67].


symmetric w.r.t. both the real and the imaginary axis of the complex plane, i.e. the circles of
the uniformization are cut exactly in half by the real axis and the knowledge of the intersection
points z2 , . . . , z2h+1 (with z1 = 0) yields all the information about the Schottky uniformization.
    Let G be the Schottky group corresponding to the desired Schottky uniformization, and let z
be a point on the Schottky cover with its counterpart a(z) on the algebraic curve. Then the
relation between the two formulations of the Riemann surface is
                                                 X
                                                        γ(z)2 − γ(0)2 .
                                                                     
                                   a(z) − a1 =                                                        (A.2)
                                                 γ∈G

When coming from the algebraic curve, one does not know the Schottky group G yet, so one
starts off with the first approximation of eq. (A.2) (only using the term of the sum with γ = id),
i.e.                                                     p
                              a(z) − a1 ≈ z 2 ⇐⇒ z ≈ ± a(z) − a1 .                          (A.3)

    From this first approximation, the corresponding Schottky group elements can be found
(see below). The approximation and the Schottky group can then be used to solve eq. (A.2)
iteratively to the desired precision. Equation (A.2) should be solved for the mapping

                                                an = a(zn ),                                          (A.4)

so that each branch point of the algebraic curve has a counterpart on the Schottky cover corre-
sponding to an intersection point of a circle with the real axis (from this it follows immediately
that z1 = 0).
    The following shows the relations of the intersection points ±zi with the other parameters
and quantities of the Schottky uniformization of genus h:


                                                    39
    • The radii of the 2h circles (where each circle has exactly one other circle it is identified
      with, leaving h different circles after the identification) are (for i = 1, . . . , h)

                                                       1
                                             ri =        (z2i+1 − z2i ) ,                     (A.5)
                                                       2
      and their centers are at
                                                        1
                                             ±ci =        (z2i + z2i+1 ) .                    (A.6)
                                                        2
    • The expressions for the parameters Pi (i.e. the fixed points of the Schottky generators γi )
      and λi of the Schottky cover are obtained from the intersection points zk as follows (for
      i = 1, . . . , h)
                                                  √
                                        Pi = z2i z2i+1 ,                                      (A.7)
                                            √        √
                                               z2i − z2i+1 2
                                                           
                                        λi = √        √      .                                (A.8)
                                               z2i + z2i+1

    • Using these parameters, the generators γi of the Schottky group G are (for i = 1, . . . , h)
                                                                       !
                                   1         1 + λi      −Pi (1 − λi )
                            γ= √                                         ,                  (A.9)
                                 2 λi − P1i (1 − λi )      1 + λi

      with their corresponding inverses
                                                                                     !
                                         1               1 + λi     Pi (1 − λi )
                                 γ −1 = √              1                                 .   (A.10)
                                       2 λi            Pi (1 − λi )   1 + λi


B     Extra details for Schottky–Kronecker form
B.1    Quasiperiodicity in auxiliary variable
We start by expressing the terms in Fj as differences of fractions, as in eq. (5.16),
                                                                            
                                       X                 1      1
                         Fj (z, x) =         dz             −                    W (γ) .      (B.1)
                                                      z − γx z − γPj
                                       γ∈G

As we plug in x 7→ γk x, one may naively assume that one may be able to relabel the sum on
only the first term to absorb the new generator. However, each fraction independently is not
Mœbius invariant, and their partial sums are not absolutely convergent, which would make such
a relabeling change the value of the form. Instead, we must insert additional terms to recover
Mœbius invariant cross-ratios,
                             X         1         1
                                                      
              Fj (z, γk x) =     dz          −          W (γ)
                                    z − γγk x z − γPj
                             γ∈G
                             X         1        1         1          1
                                                                           
                           =     dz          −        +         −            W (γ)
                                    z − γγk x z − γx z − γx z − γPj
                             γ∈G
                             X         1        1
                                                     
                           =     dz          −         W (γ) + Fj (z, x) .               (B.2)
                                    z − γγk x z − γx
                           γ∈G




                                                        40
Now, we can use a similar strategy to identify the first term on the right hand side,
      X                           
                   1          1
          dz            −            W (γ)
              z − γγk x z − γx
      γ∈G
                            X          1              1          1           1
                                                                                 
                         =      dz             −             −         +           W (γ)
                                    z − γγk x z − γγk Pk       z − γx z − γPk
                           γ∈G
                            X                               
                                        1              1
                         =      dz             +               W (γ) − Fk (z, x)
                                    z − γγk x z − γγk Pk
                                        γ∈G

                                    = Fk (z, x)(wk−1 − 1) .                                                                       (B.3)

Putting the results together, we find

                                     Fj (z, γk x) = Fk (z, x)(wk−1 − 1) + Fj (z, x) ,                                             (B.4)

as in eq. (5.15).

B.2      Derivation for the coefficients of the kernels
In this appendix we provide details on the derivation of formula (5.28) for the coefficients
C(bni11 · · · bniss , γjm1 1 · · · γjml l ) of the higher-genus kernels. The element γjm1 1 · · · γjml l corresponds to
the expression em1 bj1 · · · eml bjl under the action of the map W : γin11 · · · γinl l 7→ win11 · · · winll . Con-
sider the procedure of extracting the coefficient of bni11 · · · bniss :
                                                                    
                           C bni11 · · · bniss , γjm1 1 · · · γjml l = bni11 · · · bniss em1 bj1 · · · eml bjl .
                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                  (B.5)

    • If s = 0, then                                            
                                         C 1, γjm1 1 · · · γjml l = [1]em1 bj1 · · · eml bjl = 1.                                 (B.6)

    • If l = 0 and s ̸= 0, then

                                              C bni11 · · · bniss , id = bni11 · · · bniss 1 = 0.
                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                  (B.7)

This covers the base cases of the formula. Then, we expand the first exponential:
                                                                                ∞
                                                                            X (m1 bj1 )k m2 bj
                 C bni11 · · · bniss , γjm1 1 · · · γjml l = bni11 · · · bniss              e              mb
                                                                                                  2 · · · e l jl .                (B.8)
                                                                                    k!
                                                                              k=0

    • If j1 ̸= i1 , then the only contributing term is when k = 0, so
                                                                                                                                   
        C bin11 · · · bniss , γjm1 1 · · · γjml l = bni11 · · · bniss em2 bj2 · · · eml bjl = C bni11 · · · bniss , γjm2 2 · · · γjml l .
                                                                     

                                                                                                                                     (B.9)

    • If j1 = i1 , then we must include the terms where 0 ≤ k ≤ n1 , so
                                                             n1
                                                          X   (m1 )k h n1 −k         i
                 C bni11 · · · bniss , γjm1 1 · · · γjml l =            bi1 · · · bniss em2 bj2 · · · eml bjl
                                                                  k!
                                                             k=0
                                                              n1
                                                             X     (m1 )k  n1 −k                               
                                                         =               C bi1 · · · bniss , γjm2 2 · · · γjml l .              (B.10)
                                                                     k!
                                                             k=0



                                                                   41
This covers the recursive cases where in each case the length of the Schottky element gets shorter,
so the computation terminates.


References
 [1] K. Chen, “Iterated path integrals”, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 83, 831 (1977),
     http://dx.doi.org/10.1090/S0002-9904-1977-14320-6.
 [2] F. Brown, “Multiple zeta values and periods of moduli spaces M0,n ”,
     Ann. Sci. Éc. Norm. Supér. (4) 42, 371 (2009), math/0606419.
 [3] B. Enriquez and F. Zerbini, “Analogues of hyperlogarithm functions on affine complex curves”,
     arxiv:2212.03119.
 [4] C. Duhr, “Hopf algebras, coproducts and symbols: an application to Higgs boson amplitudes”,
     JHEP 1208, 043 (2012), arxiv:1203.0454.
 [5] A. B. Goncharov, M. Spradlin, C. Vergu and A. Volovich, “Classical polylogarithms for amplitudes
     and wilson loops”, Phys.Rev.Lett. 105, 151605 (2010), arxiv:1006.5703.
 [6] J. Broedel, O. Schlotterer and S. Stieberger, “Polylogarithms, multiple zeta values and superstring
     amplitudes”, Fortsch.Phys. 61, 812 (2013), arxiv:1304.7267.
 [7] S. Caron-Huot, L. J. Dixon, J. M. Drummond, F. Dulat, J. Foster, O. Gürdoğan, M. von Hippel,
     A. J. McLeod and G. Papathanasiou, “The Steinmann Cluster Bootstrap for N = 4 Super
     Yang-Mills Amplitudes”, PoS CORFU2019, 003 (2020), arxiv:2005.06735.
 [8] S. Laporta and E. Remiddi, “Analytic treatment of the two loop equal mass sunrise graph”,
     Nucl. Phys. B 704, 349 (2005), hep-ph/0406160.
 [9] S. Bloch and P. Vanhove, “The elliptic dilogarithm for the sunset graph”,
     J. Number Theory 148, 328 (2015), arxiv:1309.5865.
[10] L. Adams, C. Bogner and S. Weinzierl, “The iterated structure of the all-order result for the
     two-loop sunrise integral”, J. Math. Phys. 57, 032304 (2016), arxiv:1512.05630.
[11] L. Adams, C. Bogner and S. Weinzierl, “The two-loop sunrise graph in two space-time dimensions
     with arbitrary masses in terms of elliptic dilogarithms”, J. Math. Phys. 55, 102301 (2014),
     arxiv:1405.5640.
[12] J. Broedel, C. Duhr, F. Dulat and L. Tancredi, “Elliptic polylogarithms and iterated integrals on
     elliptic curves II: an application to the sunrise integral”, Phys. Rev. D97, 116009 (2018),
     arxiv:1712.07095.
[13] J. Broedel, C. Duhr, F. Dulat, R. Marzucca, B. Penante and L. Tancredi, “An analytic solution for
     the equal-mass banana graph”, JHEP 1909, 112 (2019), arxiv:1907.03787.
[14] A. Primo and L. Tancredi, “Maximal cuts and differential equations for Feynman integrals. An
     application to the three-loop massive banana graph”, Nucl. Phys. B 921, 316 (2017),
     arxiv:1704.05465.
[15] J. Broedel, C. Duhr and N. Matthes, “Meromorphic modular forms and the three-loop equal-mass
     banana integral”, JHEP 2202, 184 (2022), arxiv:2109.15251.
[16] J. Broedel, C. R. Mafra, N. Matthes and O. Schlotterer, “Elliptic multiple zeta values and one-loop
     superstring amplitudes”, JHEP 1507, 112 (2015), arxiv:1412.5535.
[17] J. Broedel, O. Schlotterer and F. Zerbini, “From elliptic multiple zeta values to modular graph
     functions: open and closed strings at one loop”, JHEP 1901, 155 (2019), arxiv:1803.00527.
[18] J. Broedel and A. Kaderli, “Amplitude recursions with an extra marked point”,
     Commun. Num. Theor. Phys. 16, 75 (2022), arxiv:1912.09927.
[19] A. Georgoudis and Y. Zhang, “Two-loop Integral Reduction from Elliptic and Hyperelliptic
     Curves”, JHEP 1512, 086 (2015), arxiv:1507.06310.


                                                   42
[20] R. Marzucca, A. J. McLeod, B. Page, S. Pögel and S. Weinzierl, “Genus drop in hyperelliptic
     Feynman integrals”, Phys. Rev. D 109, L031901 (2024), arxiv:2307.11497.
[21] E. Remiddi and J. Vermaseren, “Harmonic polylogarithms”, Int.J.Mod.Phys. A15, 725 (2000),
     hep-ph/9905237.
[22] N. Nielsen, “Der Eulersche Dilogarithmus und seine Verallgemeinerungen”,
     Nova Acta Leopoldina (Halle) 90, 121 (1985).
[23] K. S. Kölbig, “Nielsen’s generalized polylogarithms”,
     SIAM Journal on Mathematical Analysis 17, 1232 (1986), https://doi.org/10.1137/0517086,
     https://doi.org/10.1137/0517086.
[24] C. Bauer, A. Frink and R. Kreckel, “Introduction to the GiNaC framework for symbolic
     computation within the C++ programming language”, cs/0004015.
[25] J. Vollinga and S. Weinzierl, “Numerical evaluation of multiple polylogarithms”,
     Computer Physics Communications 167, 177–194 (2005),
     http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2004.12.009.
[26] S. Moch, P. Uwer and S. Weinzierl, “Nested sums, expansion of transcendental functions and
     multiscale multiloop integrals”, J. Math. Phys. 43, 3363 (2002), hep-ph/0110083.
[27] J. Ablinger, J. Blümlein and C. Schneider, “Harmonic sums and polylogarithms generated by
     cyclotomic polynomials”, J. Math. Phys. 52, 102301 (2011), arxiv:1105.6063.
[28] J. Ablinger, J. Blümlein and C. Schneider, “Analytic and algorithmic aspects of generalized
     harmonic sums and polylogarithms”, J. Math. Phys. 54, 082301 (2013), arxiv:1302.0378.
[29] S. J. Bloch, “Higher regulators, algebraic K-theory, and zeta functions of elliptic curves”,
     American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI (2000), 1-97p.
[30] D. Zagier, “The Bloch-Wigner-Ramakrishnan polylogarithm function”, Math. Ann. 286, 613 (1990).
[31] A. Levin, “Elliptic polylogarithms: An analytic theory”, Compositio Mathematica 106, 267 (1997).
[32] F. Brown and A. Levin, “Multiple elliptic polylogarithms”, arxiv:1110.6917v2.
[33] J. Broedel, C. Duhr, F. Dulat and L. Tancredi, “Elliptic polylogarithms and iterated integrals on
     elliptic curves. Part I: general formalism”, JHEP 1805, 093 (2018), arxiv:1712.07089.
[34] A. Weil, “Elliptic functions according to Eisenstein and Kronecker”, Springer-Verlag, Berlin
     (1999), viii+93p, Reprint of the 1976 original.
[35] D. Bernard, “On the Wess–Zumino–Witten models on the torus”, Nucl. Phys. B303, 77 (1988).
[36] D. Zagier, “Periods of modular forms and Jacobi theta functions”, Invent. Math. 104, 449 (1991).
[37] D. Calaque, B. Enriquez and P. Etingof, “Universal KZB equations: the elliptic case”, in:
     “Algebra, arithmetic, and geometry: in honor of Yu. I. Manin. Vol. I”, Birkhäuser Boston, Inc.,
     Boston, MA (2009), 165–266p.
[38] A. Levin and G. Racinet, “Towards multiple elliptic polylogarithms”, math/0703237.
[39] B. Enriquez and F. Zerbini, “Elliptic hyperlogarithms”, arxiv:2307.01833.
[40] D. Bernard, “On the Wess–Zumino–Witten models on Riemann surfaces”,
     Nucl. Phys. B309, 145 (1988).
[41] B. Enriquez, “Flat connections on configuration spaces and braid groups of surfaces”,
     Advances in Mathematics 252, 204 (2014).
[42] B. Enriquez and F. Zerbini, “Construction of Maurer-Cartan elements over configuration spaces of
     curves”, arxiv:2110.09341.
[43] E. D’Hoker, M. Hidding and O. Schlotterer, “Constructing polylogarithms on higher-genus
     Riemann surfaces”, arxiv:2306.08644.
[44] E. D’Hoker, B. Enriquez, O. Schlotterer and F. Zerbini, “Work in progress”.


                                                   43
[45] F. Brown, “Single-valued multiple polylogarithms in one variable”,
     Compt. Rend. Math. 338, 527 (2004).
[46] E. Panzer, “Feynman integrals and hyperlogarithms”, PhD thesis, Humboldt U., 2015.
[47] N. Matthes, “Elliptic multiple zeta values”, PhD thesis, Universität Hamburg, 2016.
[48] J. Broedel, C. Duhr, F. Dulat, B. Penante and L. Tancredi, “Elliptic symbol calculus: from elliptic
     polylogarithms to iterated integrals of Eisenstein series”, JHEP 1808, 014 (2018),
     arxiv:1803.10256.
[49] B. Enriquez, “Analogues elliptiques des nombres multizétas”,
     Bull. Soc. Math. France 144, 395 (2016), arxiv:1301.3042.
[50] J. Broedel, N. Matthes and O. Schlotterer, “Relations between elliptic multiple zeta values and a
     special derivation algebra”, J. Phys. A49, 155203 (2016), arxiv:1507.02254.
[51] F. Zerbini, “Elliptic multiple zeta values, modular graph functions and superstring scattering
     amplitudes”, Diss., Univ. Bonn (2017).
[52] H. M. Farkas and I. Kra, “Riemann surfaces”, Springer New York (1992), New York, NY.
[53] F. Schottky, “Ueber eine specielle Function, welche bei einer bestimmten linearen Transformation
     ihres Arguments unverändert bleibt.”,
     Journal für die reine und angewandte Mathematik 1887, 227 (1887).
[54] A. I. Bobenko and C. Klein, “Computational approach to Riemann surfaces”, Springer Berlin,
     Heidelberg (2011).
[55] F. Herrlich, “Schottky space and Teichmüller disks”, Handbook of group actions 1, 289 (2015).
[56] M. Seppälä, “Myrberg’s numerical uniformization of hyperelliptic curves.”,
     Annales Academiae Scientiarum Fennicae. Mathematica 29, 3 (2004),
     http://eudml.org/doc/123889.
[57] R. M. Hain, “The geometry of the mixed Hodge structure on the fundamental group”, in:
     “Algebraic geometry, Bowdoin, 1985 (Brunswick, Maine, 1985)”, Amer. Math. Soc., Providence,
     RI (1987), 247–282p.
[58] V. G. Knizhnik and A. B. Zamolodchikov, “Current Algebra and Wess-Zumino Model in
     Two-Dimensions”, Nucl. Phys. B247, 83 (1984).
[59] A. Lisitsyn, “Representations of Kronecker forms at higher genus”, Master’s thesis, ETH Zürich
     (2024).
[60] Z. C. Chan, “Towards a higher-genus generalization of the Kronecker function using Schottky
     covers”, Master’s thesis, ETH Zürich (2022).
[61] A. Bogatyrev, “Extremal polynomials and Riemann surfaces”, Springer Science & Business Media
     (2012).
[62] S. Y. Lyamaev, “Summation of Poincaré theta series in the Schottky model”,
     Computational Mathematics and Mathematical Physics 62, 1059 (2022).
[63] D. Mumford, “Tata Lectures on Theta I, II”, Birkhäuser Boston, MA (1983, 1984).
[64] B. Enriquez and G. Felder, “Solutions of the KZB equations in genus ≥ 1”, math/9912198.
[65] A. G. Tsuchiya, “On a formula of spin sums, Eisenstein-Kronecker series in higher genus
     Riemann surfaces”, arxiv:2209.14633.
[66] E. D. Belokolos, A. I. Bobenko, V. Z. Enol’skij, A. R. Its and V. B. Matveev, “Algebro-geometric
     approach to nonlinear integrable equations”, Berlin: Springer-Verlag (1994).
[67] A. R. Osborne, “Nonlinear Fourier methods for ocean waves”, Procedia IUTAM 26, 112 (2018),
     IUTAM Symposium on Wind Waves.




                                                   44
