                                                                                                             1073



                    Einstein centennial review article / Article de
                    synthèse commémoratif du centenaire de
                    l’année miraculeuse d’Einstein


                 Black-hole boundaries1
                 Ivan Booth



                 Abstract: Classical black holes and event horizons are highly nonlocal objects, defined in
                 relation to the causal past of future null infinity. Alternative, quasilocal characterizations of
                 black holes are often used in mathematical, quantum, and numerical relativity. These include
                 apparent, Killing, trapping, isolated, dynamical, and slowly evolving horizons. All of these
                 are closely associated with two-surfaces of zero outward null expansion. This paper reviews
                 the traditional definition of black holes and provides an overview of some of the more recent
                 work on alternative horizons.
                 PACS Nos.: 04.20.Cv, 04.70.−s, 04.70.Bw

                 Résumé : Les trous noirs classiques et leur horizon des événements sont des objets qui
                 sont définis de façon hautement non locale par leur relation avec avec le passé causal de
                 l’infini futur (du genre lumière). Des définitions alternatives des trous noirs et de leurs
                 horizons, basées sur des considérations semi-locales, sont pourtant souvent utilisées en
                 relativité mathématique, quantique, de Killing, piège, isolée, dynamique et en evolution
                 lente. Toutes ces formes d’horizon sont étroitement associées à des surfaces fermées à deux
                 dimensions qui possèdent cette caractéristique propre que l’expansion extérieure de rayons
                 lumineux orthogonaux à ces surfaces s’annule. Cet article contient une revue des définitions
                 traditionnelles des trous noirs et résume quelques travaux récents sur les horizons alternatifs.
                 [Traduit par la Rédaction]

1. Introduction
    Black holes have played a central role in gravitational physics for over 40 years. Early on, they
were largely creatures of mathematical relativity and it was in the 1960s and 1970s that many of their
classical properties were investigated. These properties included both detailed studies of the geometry
and physics of stationary exact solutions as well as proofs of general results such as the singularity,



   Received 17 August 2005. Accepted 29 September 2005. Published on the NRC Research Press Web site at
   http://cjp.nrc.ca/ on 10 December 2005.
   I. Booth. Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Memorial University, St. John’s, NL A1C 5S7, Canada,
   (e-mail: ibooth@math.mun.ca).
   1
     This article is one of a series of invited papers that will be published during the year in celebration of the
   World Year of Physics 2005 — WYP2005.

Can. J. Phys. 83: 1073–1099 (2005)             doi: 10.1139/P05-063                            © 2005 NRC Canada
1074                                                                                   Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

uniqueness, and area increase theorems (for reviews, see the standard texts such as refs. 1–3). Since then
the mathematical interest has continued but black holes have also found wide application in other areas of
gravitational research. Notably, the discovery in the early 1970s of the laws of black-hole mechanics [4]
and the subsequent identification of those laws with the laws of thermodynamics [5] has reverberated
through studies of quantum gravity ever since. Black holes have also found a key place in gravitational
astrophysics and the observational evidence for their existence is very strong and getting better all the
time [6]. Theoretically, they are closely linked to some of the most powerful processes known to science
including both supernovae and active galactic nuclei [7]. Physical processes involving black holes (such
as binary inspirals and gravitational collapse) are widely expected to be some of the brightest sources of
gravitational waves and based on these expectations, gravitational wave observatories have been built
all over the world [8].
    All of that said, the standard mathematical definition of a black hole [1], as laid down over 30 years
ago, is largely disconnected from these applications. The extent of a black hole is not directly defined
by strong gravitational fields (equivalently large spacetime curvatures) or any other locally defined
quantities. Instead, it is a global property of the causal structure of an entire spacetime; one cannot
properly identify a black-hole region without that global knowledge. We will discuss the rigourous
definition in more detail later in this review, but for now paraphrase it, in the usual way, by saying
that a black hole is a region of spacetime from which no signal can ever escape. As a definition this is
intuitively satisfying but complications quickly arise once we try to properly define “ever” and “escape”.
To do this in an invariant and mathematically elegant way we are inevitably lead to a consideration of
the structure of spacetime at infinity — only after waiting an infinite amount of time can one really say
whether or not a signal will get out and only once it is an infinite distance from the hole can we really
say that it has escaped.
    Thus, this definition depends on observations that can only be made “at infinity” and so the exact
extent of a black hole can only be determined by omniscient observers. In practice, of course, such
observations are impossible and so, as a physicist, one might adopt a more practical viewpoint of
deciding on the existence and (or) extent of a black hole by making measurements at large distances
after waiting for long periods of time. Even then though, the definition remains teleological and nonlocal
and so philosophically problematic. For example, we will see that an event horizon will always expand
in area until the last bit of matter and (or) energy that will ever pass through it does so. Because it is
identified in the far future, its evolution reflects that knowledge.
     Given these difficulties, there has always been some discussion of other, (quasi)local, characteri-
zations of black holes. Instead of the causal structure, these alternative definitions are geometric and
identify black holes2 with regions of strong gravitational fields and, in particular, with trapped surfaces:
closed and spacelike two-surfaces that have the property that all null geodesics that intersect them
orthogonally must converge into the future. Horizons are then taken as the boundaries of regions of
trapped surfaces, and are necessarily marginally trapped — the expansion of ingoing null geodesics is
negative but that of outgoing sets is zero. Such ideas are not new. The definition of trapped surfaces
actually preceded that of event horizons [9] and these objects are at least as characteristic of black
holes: they are clearly a measure of strong gravitational fields, they imply the existence of spacetime
singularities (event horizons do not), and they even imply the existence of event horizons in spacetimes
with the appropriate causal structure.
    What has changed over the last decade has been the increased interest in these ideas. This has partly
been motivated by theoretical concerns that the identification of physical objects should not depend on
the structure of null infinity and events that might or might not happen in the far future. However, at

2
    “Black hole” is used in a general sense here as the kind of object that, for example, forms during a gravitational
    collapse. Henceforth, we will often use it in this common way, and generally add “causally defined”, “standard”
    or some other identifying phrase in situations when we men instead the specific classical definition.

                                                                                                  © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                   1075

least as strong a reason has come from numerical relativity. There, black holes are widely identified with
outermost marginally trapped surfaces [10]. Event horizons can be (approximately) located, but only
retroactively after a simulation is complete. This de facto characterization, along with the theoretical
concerns, was the original impetus for studying these objects. As we shall see however, the rapid progress
in our understanding of quasilocally defined horizons now gives its own motivation to this work — more
and more they are seen as interesting and physically important objects in their own right.
    Studies of quasilocal horizons go by several names: in numerical work outermost marginally trapped
surfaces are usually referred to as apparent horizons (which does not correspond to the technical defi-
nition of that term), while the best known of the mathematical programmes are trapping [11], isolated
horizons [12], and dynamical horizons [13]. In this paper, we review the developments of the last
decade, seeking to clarify the nomenclature (often similar concepts have many names while sometimes
one name is used to refer to several distinct ideas), build an intuition about the physical relevance of the
various objects, and understand their many properties.
    The paper is structured in the following way. To set the stage, in Sect. 2, we review the classical
definitions of black holes including trapped surfaces and event, Killing, and apparent horizons. Sec-
tion 3 discusses some of the newer definitions such as isolated, trapping, and dynamical horizons and
their relationship with those older ideas, in particular emphasizing their kinship to apparent horizons
and trapped surfaces. Apart from definitions in principle however, we will also seek to test them by
considering how they apply to various sample spacetimes. This will help to illuminate their strengths
and weaknesses and point the way to further investigations and improvements. Then, in Sect. 4, we will
explore the mathematical implications of these definitions, considering theorems on their existence,
uniqueness, allowed topologies, associated flux laws, limiting behaviours, and role as boundaries in
Hamiltonian formulations of general relativity. In Sect. 5, we will summarize, draw some conclusions,
and look towards the future.
    Finally, I give advance notice that this review will only really be of the classical uses and implications
of quasilocal horizons. We will say very little about the quantum applications and so neglect such
important developments as the role of isolated horizons in the loop quantum gravity entropy calculations
[14] and the developing applications of these ideas to quantum mechanical investigations of black-hole
formation and evaporation [15].

2. Standard black holes and their boundaries
2.1. Event horizons
    We begin with a quick review of event horizons, restricting our discussion to strongly asymptotically
predictable spacetimes. The interested reader is directed to refs. 1 and 3 for a proper definition of these
terms (or to ref. 16 for a recent discussion of associated mathematical difficulties) but, here, we just note
that they mean that the spacetime is asymptotically identical to Minkowski space. In particular, with
the help of conformal mappings, one can rigorously construct boundaries “at infinity” that correspond
to the ultimate destinations and (or) sources of (most) inextendible spacelike, timelike, and null curves.
As shown in Fig. 1 these are two-dimensional spacelike infinity i o , the similarly two-dimensional past
and future timelike infinities i − and i + , and the three-dimensional past and future null infinities I − and
I +.
    Then a null curve is said to have “escaped to infinity” if its counterpart in the conformally mapped
spacetime terminates on I + .
    In Minkowski space, all inextendible null curves terminate on I + . By contrast, spacetimes are said
to contain a (causally defined) black hole if they have regions from which no null curve reaches I + —
thus no causal curve can escape those regions. Equivalently, as shown in Fig. 1, a spacetime contains a
black hole if the complement of the causal past of I + is nonempty. Then that complement is the black
hole and the boundary of that region is the event horizon. In this example, null curves do not all escape to
I + and those that do not, end up either in the central singularity or trapped forever in the event horizon.
                                                                                           © 2005 NRC Canada
1076                                                                               Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

Fig. 1. A Penrose–Carter diagram showing a spacetime in which a matter distribution collapses to form
a black hole. As usual in these diagrams, null curves are drawn with slopes of ±1. i ± is future and (or)
past timelike infinity (the destination and (or) origin of timelike curves as “time” goes to ±∞), i o is the
corresponding spacelike infinity, and I ± is future and (or) past null infinity (the destination and (or) origin
of null curves as “time” goes to ±∞). Note that point A can send signals to I + while B, which is part of
the black hole, cannot.




    This definition is based on the global causal structure of the spacetime rather than directly on its local
geometry (equivalently the gravitational field). Further, it is teleological as the identification of a black
hole region depends on the ultimate fate of null curves, not their local behaviour. As mentioned in the
introduction, these dual nonlocalities mean that black holes evolve in nonintuitive ways. For example,
one would naively expect that the event horizon of a black hole would expand as matter falls through
it and be quiescent when it is (temporarily) isolated from such all influences. This is not the case. As
shown in Fig. 2, infalling matter does not cause such expansion but instead reduces rates of growth. By
contrast, the absence of matter results in an acceleration of expansion. This growth only stops once all
interactions permanently cease between the event horizon and its surroundings. Temporary cessations
are not sufficient; due to the teleogical nature of the definition a black hole can distinguish between
temporary and permanent states of isolation and react accordingly.
    To understand this behaviour, keep in mind that the event horizon is null and so coincides with a
congruence of null geodesics. As such its evolution is governed by the Raychaudhuri equation. Thus
(see, for example, ref. 17)

dθ()    1 2
      = − θ() − σ()ab σ()
                         ab
                             − 8π Tab a b                                                                   (1)
 dλ      2
where a is a null tangent vector to the congruence, λ is an affine parameter for these geodesics, θ() is
the expansion of the geodesics (so that d/dλ = θ(), where  is the area form), σ()ab is the shear, and
Tab is the stress-energy tensor. The immediate thing to notice is that the first two terms on the right-hand
side of the equation will always be nonpositive and, if the null energy condition holds, then so will the
last term. Therefore, for any congruence of null geodesics (including event horizons), dθ() /dλ ≤ 0,
                                                                                              © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                    1077

Fig. 2. A two-dimensional schematic of the evolution of the event horizon (the heavy black line) as two
concentric, spherically symmetric shells of matter (the sets of parallel arrows) collapse to form a black hole
(the grey region). As noted in the text, the evolution is highly noncausal: the horizon forms in vacuum and
then expands continuously with infalling matter decreasing the rate of expansion. The expansion only stops
when the last shell crosses the the horizon. In this diagram the horizon is nonexpanding (and so null) when
it is vertical. Otherwise it is expanding.




and in particular it is not hard to show that if we ever have θ() < 0 then it must always diverge to
−∞ shortly thereafter. This result is the focussing theorem; if a congruence of light rays ever begins to
contract in area then it must form a caustic in finite time. Thus, for an event horizon that asymptotes to
become stationary, we must always have θ() ≥ 0. In turn, this gives rise to the celebrated area increase
theorem (d /dλ ≥ 0) for event horizons.
     We can gain further understanding of this evolution by making the following, simple, calculation:
                                             
   
 d2      1 2
      =     θ   −  σ      σ ab
                     ()ab () − 8π T ab a b
                                               
                                                                                                      (2)
dλ2       2 ()
Thus, even though θ() never increases, the rate of expansion of the area of the horizon can increase
(unless θ() = 0), and does if θ()  = 0 and the shear and matter terms vanish. To clarify this difference,
consider the case of a sphere of light expanding outwards in Minkowski space. As it gets very large
θ() → 0 as local sections of the sphere become almost flat. By contrast, as this happens dA/dλ → ∞
(where A is the cross-sectional area of the horizon).
    With these observations in mind, we can understand Fig. 2. There, two spherical shells collapse to
form a black hole. Combining our omniscience with the symmetry, it is relatively easy to identify the
event horizon. Specifically, outside the outermost shell the spacetime will be Schwarzschild and static.
Thus, once the two shells have collapsed within their (combined) Schwarzschild radius we know that
the event horizon will coincide with the surface r = 2M. Then, we can trace the evolution of this surface
backwards in time to find its orgin at r = 0. We note that there is nothing special happening at r = 0 at
that point. Instead the event horizon appears in anticipation of future events (and at this point θ() will
have its maximum value). Having identified the relevant congruence the above equations (simplified
by the symmetry so that σ()ab = 0) guide its evolution as we follow it forwards in time. The newly
formed horizon exists in vacuo and so by (2), the rate of growth of A is positive and accelerating. This
continues until the first shell of matter crosses the horizon and causes that rate to decrease until, in our
example, it is very close to zero. However, the horizon is then back in vacuo and so the growth of A
again begins to accelerate. Just before the second shell hits, this rate is large enough to be noticeable
and we again see a rapid growth in the horizon area. Then, the second shell arrives, sends θ() → 0, and

                                                                                            © 2005 NRC Canada
1078                                                                             Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

so with no more matter ever falling into the hole, A achieves its maximum value and stays that way for
the rest of time.
     Thus, there are at least three unusual features of event horizons (as compared to the usual objects
studied by physics). First, a standard black hole is only properly defined for spacetimes that have a
I + . This means that it is a highly nonlocal object as its very existence depends on the structure of
infinity. Second, even if the spacetime has the correct asymptotic structure we must still wait until “the
end of time” to locate the event horizon. It cannot be identified by local measurements. Third, while
the evolution of the horizon is causal once it has been identified, its growth still reflects its initial,
teleological identification. As such, we have features like growth not being simply related to the rate of
infalling matter.
     Of these, we have already seen that the first two are probably not causes for serious concern. Keeping
in mind that this is an idealized definition, it is perfectly reasonable to argue that in physical situations
one should replace I + with a set of observers, far from the black hole, who are willing to wait for long
(but finite) periods of time. Thus, as long as there is an “almost” flat region around the black hole in
which these observers can live, one can adapt this definition in an appropriate way (again, see ref. 16).
That said, this clearly does not resolve the problem for highly dynamical situations where such a region
does not exist. Further, even if one can find a I + substitute, one still has to use nonlocal information to
identify an event horizon and live with its strange modes of evolution.
     Now, given the exotic nature of black holes it is certainly conceivable that this situation cannot be
improved upon; perhaps reality does not allow for a local identification of black holes. However, as we
shall see in the next couple of sections this does not seem to be the case. Alternative characterizations
of black holes do exist and are, in general, at least as useful as causally defined black holes and event
horizons. We now consider some of these ideas.

2.2. Killing horizons
    The best known examples of event horizons are in static or stationary spacetimes (i.e., those in the
Kerr–Newman solutions). As such, besides being null surfaces they are also tangent to one or more
(global) Killing vector fields. This observation gives rise to the following definition.

Definition: Given a spacetime (M, gab ), a Killing horizon is a null three-surface H that is everywhere
tangent to some Killing vector field ξ a of the full spacetime, which itself is null on H ( ξ · ξ |H = 0).

It can be shown (see ref. 18 for a general discussion or ref. 1 for details) that event horizons in stationary,
asymptotically flat, black-hole solutions to the Einstein–Maxwell equations must be Killing horizons.
For static spacetimes (such as Schwarzschild), ξ a is the Killing vector field corresponding to time
translations at infinity, but for stationary spacetimes (such as Kerr), it will be a linear combination of
the “time-translation” and rotational Killing vector fields: ξ a = (∂/∂t)a + (∂/∂φ)a , where  is the
angular velocity of the horizon.
     If one slightly relaxes the definition so that ξ a does not have to be a Killing vector field of the full
spacetime, but instead just of some neighbourhood of (some section) of H then one can use Killing
horizons to characterize horizons that are (possibly temporarily) in equilibrium with their surroundings.
Of course in this case they will not, in general, exactly coincide with the event horizon but in many cases
they would be quite close (think about Fig. 2 where the event horizon is “almost” stationary). Then, on
extracting a surface gravity κξ from the geodesic equation ξ a ∇a ξ b = κξ ξ b , one can prove a version of
the zeroth law of black-hole mechanics: κξ is constant over H . The specific value of the surface gravity
depends on the normalization of the Killing vector field, though if ξ a is a global Killing vector field,
the natural choice is made by requiring that ξ · ξ = −1 “at infinity” [17, 18].
     Note that by definition the intrinsic and extrinsic geometry of H will be invariant with respect to
translations along the null Killing vector field. Thus, given a foliation of H consistent with the Killing
                                                                                            © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                   1079

vector fields, an induced metric q̃ab on the two-surfaces, and setting a = ξ a we have

L  q̃ab = θ() q̃ab + σ()ab = 0                                                                         (3)

and so the expansion and shear of the a congruence vanishes.
    Finally note that while event horizons are necessarily Killing horizons under the conditions dis-
cussed above, the converse is not necessarily true. For example, in Minkowski space with the standard
rectangular coordinates, the x = ±t three-surfaces are Killing horizons. Less trivially, ref. 19 constructs
examples of other black-hole-free spacetimes that can be entirely foliated by Killing horizons, each with
topology S 2 × [0, 1]. Thus, while Killing horizons may be characteristic of stationary black holes they
are not a sufficient condition for their identification. Situations of this type will recur with some of our
later definitions and the implication is simply that certain non-black-hole structures share some common
properties with black holes.

2.3. Trapped surfaces and apparent horizons
    For the Kerr–Newman family of black-hole spacetimes, the black-hole region has an alternative
characterization that is both local and physical. Specifically, through each point inside the event horizon
there exists a trapped surface — a closed two-surface that has the property that the expansions in each
of the two forward-in-time pointing, normal-to-the-surface, null directions a and na are everywhere
negative. That is, for a trapped two-surface S,

θ() = q̃ ab ∇a b < 0   and    θ(n) = q̃ ab ∇b nb < 0                                                    (4)

where q̃ab = gab + a nb + b na is the two-metric induced on S. Here, and in the future, we always
“cross-normalize” so that  · n = −1 and assign a /na to be outward and (or) inward pointing null
vector fields whenever it makes sense to make this distinction.
      One can compare such behaviour with, say, a two-sphere embedded in Minkowski space. There, the
ingoing set of null rays would focus (θ(n) < 0) while the outgoing set would expand (θ() > 0). This is
what one would intutively expect. By contrast, for trapped surfaces, the strong curvature of spacetime
means that any causal evolution of the two-surface will be a contraction.
      Even away from these examples, there are general theorems that tell us that trapped surfaces charac-
terize the strong gravitational fields intuitively associated with black holes. For example, for spacetimes
That satisfy certain positive energy conditions and which have a I + , any weakly trapped surface (where
one only restricts both expansions to be nonpositive) must be contained inside a black hole [1, 3]. Even
for spacetimes without a I + , Israel [20] shows that given the weak energy condition, any trapped two-
surface can be extended into a spacelike three-surface of constant area that causally seals off its interior
from the rest of the spacetime. Thus, trapped surfaces really are trapped. Finding a trapped surface in
a spacetime is also sufficient to imply the existence of a singularity (in the form of an inextendible
geodesic) somewhere in its causal future [1, 3, 9]. We note that there is no corresponding theorem for
event horizons — event horizons can exist that do not contain singularities.
      The association of trapped surfaces with black holes, forms the basis of the definition of an apparent
horizon. Following ref. 1, if a spacetime can be foliated by asymptotically flat spacelike three-surfaces
  t , then a point q ∈ t is said to be trapped if it lies on some trapped two-surface in t . The apparent
horizon in t is the boundary of the union of all of the trapped points and given certain smoothness
assumptions, it can be shown that it is a surface on which θ() = 0 [1, 3, 21]. Further, if the spacetime
is strongly asymptotically predictable then the apparent horizon is contained inside (or coincides with)
an event horizon.
      While it is certainly possible to identify an apparent horizon without reference to the far future, this
definition is quite unwieldy, most obviously in the need to check the assumption about asymptotic flatness
and also in the procedure of finding the boundary of the union of all the trapped points. There can also be
                                                                                           © 2005 NRC Canada
1080                                                                             Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

  Table 1. A tabular summary of the various quasilocal horizons and their definitions. Note that other
  properties may follow from those that are listed, but only requirements that explicitly appear in the
  definition have been included here.
                                                                            Signature
   Acronym     Full name                          Dim     θ(n)   L n θ()   (if 3D)     Other
   IH          Isolated horizon                   3       —      —          null        energy condition
   MOTS        Marginally outer trapped surface   2       —      —          —           closed topology
   MOTT        Marginally outer trapped tube      3       —      —          —           foliated by MOTSs
   MTS         Marginally trapped surface         2        <0     —         —           closed toplogy
   MTT         Marginally trapped tube            3       <0      —         —           foliated by MTSs
   TH          Trapping horizon                   3        =0    =0       —           foliated by MOTSs
   FITH        Future inner trapping horizon      3        <0     >0        —           foliated by MTSs
   FOTH        Future outer trapping horizon      3        <0     <0        —           foliated by MTSs
   DH          Dynamical horizon                  3        <0     —         spacelike   foliated by MTSs
   TLM         Timelike membrane                  3        <0     —         timelike    foliated by MTSs



problems associated with the smoothness of the total trapped region and (or) the apparent horizon [16].
In particular, these problems mean that, contrary to popular belief (and usage), the outermost θ() = 0
two-surface in a slice t does not always coincide with the original definition of an apparent horizon
that we have just discussed.
    That said, the outermost θ() = 0 surface in a slice is obviously much more convenient to work
with than either an apparent or event horizon. In fact, as suggested above, the classical definition of an
apparent horizon is widely ignored in practical applications such as numerical relativity [10] and instead
the term is used to refer to the outermost θ() = 0 surface. This mixing of distinct ideas under the same
name is nomenclaturally unfortunate but physically suggestive. The quasilocal horizon definitions that
we now consider can be thought of as formalizations of this vernacular notion of an apparent horizon.

3. Quasilocal horizons
    For purposes of this paper event, Killing, and apparent horizons represent the classical notions of
black-hole boundaries, and with this background in mind we now turn to the alternative, quasilocal
definitions that have been developed over the last decade. Based on the discussion of apparent horizons
above, it will not be a surprise that each of these is defined in terms of θ() = 0 surfaces. However, we
will also see that such surfaces are not exclusively restricted to black-hole spacetimes. Thus, further
restrictions are needed to single out these surfaces as black-hole boundaries. Again following the model
of apparent horizons, we will see that requiring that there be trapped surfaces “just inside” the horizon
seems to be what is needed.
    For a quick reference, these definitions and their associated acronyms are summarized in Table 1.

3.1. Isolated horizons
    We begin with isolated horizons. These are intended to be the black-hole analogues of isolated,
equilibrium states in thermodynamics and so correspond to black holes that are not interacting with
their surroundings, even though those surroundings themselves may be dynamic. The simplest way to
introduce these is as a generalization of Killing horizons. While a Killing horizon assumes the existence
of a Killing vector field in some neighbourhood of H , an isolated horizon is defined only in terms of
the intrinsic and extrinsic geometry of H itself. As such, the existence of an isolated horizon does not
assume any properties of the surrounding spacetime and in particular allows for dynamic evolutions of
the surrounding spacetime “right outside” as long as the horizon itself is left unaffected.

                                                                                           © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                 1081

    They have been well studied and are the subject of an extensive literature (see, for example, refs. 12
and 22–24). Here, we will just review some of their main properties, and note that technically we will
be considering a variety known as weakly isolated horizons.

Definition: A weakly isolated horizon is a three-surface H such that:

   1. H is null,

   2. the expansion θ() = 0 where a is a null normal to H ,

   3. −Tab a is future directed and causal, and

   4. L  ωa = 0, where ωa = −nb ∇a b and the arrow indicates a pull-back to H .
                                      ←
                                      −

Note that the second condition does not depend on the specific normalization of a since θ(f ) = f θ()
for any function f . The third is an energy condition (and in particular is implied by the dominant energy
condition). The last condition can always be met by an appropriate choice of a and so is not a restriction
on which surfaces may be considered to be weakly isolated but instead is just a rule about how we should
choose the normalization of a . This restriction is nonunique.
    If we consider any foliation of H into two-surfaces Sv , it is easy to see that the first two conditions
guarantee that L   = 0 (where, as before, is the area form for the horizon) while from the Raychaudhuri
equation (1), we also have σ()ab = 0 and Tab a b = 0. Then, it follows that a is a Killing vector for
the intrinsic geometry of H and so this geometry is invariant under “time evolutions” with respect to a .
Further, there are no matter flows across H . An isolated horizon does not interact with its surroundings.
    That said, those surroundings can, themselves, be dynamic. We have not imposed direct restrictions
on the rest of the spacetime or even on a neighbourhood of H as we did for Killing horizons. No
assumptions have been made about the behaviour of extensions of a off of H and in fact it has been
shown [25] that the spacetime surrounding an isolated horizon does not have to inherit any of the
symmetries of H . In particular, there can exist spacetimes that are both dynamic and nonspherical
“right outside” a spherical isolated horizon. Certain Robinson–Trautman spacetimes are commonly
cited as examples of these [26].
    Further support for isolated horizons as equilibrium states comes from a study of isolated horizon
mechanics. First, since a generates a congruence of null geodesics that rule H , we know that there is a
function κ such that a ∇a b = κ b . As for Killing horizons, this is the surface gravity of the horizon
and we note that we can equivalently write κ = a ωa = −nb a ∇a b . Then, for any weakly isolated
horizon it can be shown that each choice of a that satisfies the fourth condition of the definition gives
rise to a κ that is constant everywhere on H [23]. This is the zeroth law of isolated horizon mechanics.
Note that unless the isolated horizon is also a Killing horizon (and so we can normalize a versus
times translations at infinity) significant freedom remains in the choice of a and, therefore, the surface
gravity. In fact, while the formalism tells us that any κ will be constant over H , it does not fix that
constant. In many circumstances there will be a convenient choice of that value, but that is extra input
into the formalism.
    There is also a first law of isolated horizon mechanics. Here, we will restrict our attention to
(uncharged) weakly isolated horizons that also admit a rotational symmetry generated by some vector
field φ a (technically these are rigidly rotating horizons). For more general cases see refs. 23, 24, and
27. The first law then comes from a careful Hamiltonian analysis of the phase space of spacetimes that
have an isolated horizon as a boundary. In the usual way, the Hamiltonian functional includes both bulk
and boundary terms and when evaluated on any particular solution to the Einstein equations, the bulk
terms vanish. Conventionally, the boundary terms are then identified as the energies associated with
those boundaries and that is what is done here. In that case, it can be shown that the evolution of such

                                                                                         © 2005 NRC Canada
1082                                                                                     Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

spacetimes admits a Hamiltonian formulation if and only if
                κ
δHisol =           δA + δJφ                                                                                         (5)
                8π
for variations through the phase space of isolated horizons where Hisol is the contribution from the
isolated horizon boundary, A is the area of the two-dimensional cross sections Sv of the horizon, and
      
Jφ =      
          φ a ωa                                                                                   (6)
           Sv

is the corresponding angular momentum associated with the rotational symmetry. Hisol , the surface
gravity κ , and the angular velocity  are functions of A and Jφ alone.
    As the zeroth law fixes the surface gravity to be a constant but does not fix the actual value of that
constant, the first law fixes relationships that the quantities must satisfy but does not actually specify
expressions Hisol , κ , or φ . That said, if one calibrates the expressions for surface gravity and angular
velocity so that they take their regular values for the Kerr section of the phase space, then (5) can be
integrated to show that Hisol must also take its usual value [23, 24].
    Finally, before moving on to nonisolated horizons, we note that just as for Killing horizons, the
phase space of isolated horizons includes more than just outer black-hole horizons. For example, all
horizons in the fully extended Reissner–Nordström–deSitter spacetime qualify as isolated horizons —
the outer black-hole horizon, the inner Cauchy horizon, the corresponding horizons associated with
white holes, and even the cosmological horizons. Further, since all Killing horizons are also isolated
horizons, the examples of non-black-hole Killing horizons discussed in Sect. 2.2 are also examples of
isolated horizons. Thus, while the isolated horizons conditions are sufficient to capture many of the
properties of equilibrium black holes they are not exclusively black holes. In the next section, as we
classify (potentially) nonisolated horizons, we will also consider the extra conditions that are necessary
to distinguish between the various subclasses of horizons.

3.2. Classifying horizons
    We now consider quasilocal definitions of black-hole boundaries that will include nonequilibrium
states. These definitions will be general enough to allow for isolated black-hole horizons as equilibrium
states and yet also include extra conditions to identify and exclude the non-black-hole isolated horizons
considered above.
    Following the terminology of ref. 28, the primary building block of these surfaces is the marginally
outer trapped surface (MOTS): a closed, spacelike, two-surface for which the outgoing null expansion
θ() = 0 (from here on we will always assume that we can distinguish between “inward” and “outward”
pointing vector fields). Any three-surface, H , which can be entirely foliated with MOTSs, Sv , will be
referred to as a marginally outer trapped tube (MOTT). We immediately see that a null MOTT (that also
satisfies the energy condition) is an example of an isolated horizon, though with a particular foliation.
Note, however, that the restriction that the MOTSs be closed spacelike surfaces means that certain
Killing horizons, such as the x = t surfaces in Minkowski space, are not MOTTs.
    To further restrict the allowed structures that we will call horizons, it is common to demand that
θ(n) < 0 so that ingoing null rays focus. Such behaviour would be intuitively expected, removes the
Killing horizons of ref. 19 from consideration, and also has strong physical implications. If θ(n) < 0
then a MOTS is called a marginally trapped surface (MTS)3 and in turn this will imply the existence

3
    Note that “marginally trapped surface” is used to mean different things in different places in the literature. In one
    common usage (ref. 3 for example) the surfaces that we have called weakly trapped (with θ() ≤ 0 and θ(n) ≤ 0)
    are instead referred to as marginally trapped. We do not use it in that way here and instead follow, for example,
    ref. 17 or ref. 28 where a marginally trapped surface is as defined above in the main text.

                                                                                                     © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                    1083

of an event horizon in suitable spacetimes (an MTS is weakly trapped). Following refs. 13 and 28, we
also define a marginally trapped tube) (MTT) as an MOTT with θ(n) < 0.
    At first thought, these two conditions might seem to be sufficient to identify a surface as a black-hole
boundary. However, this is not the case and there are non-black-hole spacetimes that contain MTTs.
For example, Senovilla [31] has shown that certain vanishing scalar invariant (VSI) spacetimes include
MTTs (and in fact can be foliated by them) but do not contain any trapped surfaces or other signatures
of black holes.
    Along with the definition of apparent horizons, this example suggests a third condition that must
be satisfied by any three-dimensional tube that aspires to be viewed as a black-hole boundary — we
require that there be trapped surfaces “just inside” the MTT.
    This can be made mathematically precise by demanding that with an arbitrarily small “inwards”
deformation, each Sv can be turned into a fully trapped surface. This idea was first proposed by Hayward
[11] who formulated the condition in the following way (though using different notation). Construct a
dual-null foliation of some neighbourhood of the MTT so that, in particular, the MTSs are surfaces of
constant null variables [29]. Further, scale the null vectors a and na so that they generate the foliation
(note that in general this will mean that it is no longer possible to require  · n = −1). Then, θ()
and θ(n) are defined at every point in the neighbourhood as the expansions of surfaces of constant null
coordinates and if L n θ() < 0, those surfaces “just inside” the MTT are fully trapped. Conversely, if
L n θ() > 0 those “just outside” are trapped (a situation that we will see in Sect. 3.3.1 when we study a
class of spacetimes that include “jumping” MTTs) and if the sign of L n θ() varies over an Sv , neither
set is trapped.
     Of course such conditions have physical implications. As we saw in Sect. 2.3, trapped surfaces imply
the existence of spacetime singularities. Thus, any MTT that satisfies this condition almost certainly
should be viewed as associated with a black hole — it bounds trapped surfaces, conceals a spacetime
singularity, and is contained in an event horizon (if the global structure is such that one may be defined).
These arguments were first made by Hayward and form the basis of his classification of MOTTs [11]:

Definition: An MOTT is a trapping horizon if θ(n)  = 0 and there exists a dual-null foliation of some
neighbourhood of H so that L n θ()  = 0. If θ(n) < 0 then a trapping horizon is future while if θ(n) > 0
it is past. Further, if L n θ() < 0 it is outer while if L n θ() > 0 it is inner.

The names follow from a consideration of the various horizons of the fully extended Reissner–Nordström
solution. In that case, using the natural spherically symmetric dual-null foliation, it is easy to see that the
black-hole event and Cauchy horizons are future trapping horizons while the corresponding white-hole
horizons are past. Further, the black-hole Cauchy horizon is a future inner trapping horizon (FITH)
while the event horizon is a future outer trapping horizon (FOTH).
    Following ref. 30, the trapped surface condition may be reformulated in the following, computa-
tionally more convenient way. Instead of considering dual-null foliations, one directly considers the
deformations of the MTSs generated by vector fields. Thus, given a vector field X a defined over an Sv ,
one constructs an extension of Xa over some neighbourhood of the two-surface and then evolves that
surface using the flow generated by the vector field (that is Lie-drags Sv with X a ). Then one can construct
quantities such as θ() on the new surface and so calculate its variation: δX θ() . As would be expected,
the variation does not depend on the particular extension of X a and, for example, if Xa = Aa + Bna
we find
                                                                        
                                                      (2)R
δX θ() = d B − 2ω̃ da B + −da ω̃ + ω̃a ω̃ −
            2         a                a         a
                                                           + 8π Tab  n B
                                                                     a b
                                                        2
                                                                                                       
                                                                      − A σ()ab σ() ab
                                                                                         + 8π Tab a b     (7)

                                                                                            © 2005 NRC Canada
1084                                                                           Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

where d 2 and da are, respectively, the intrinsic Laplacian and induced covariant derivative on Sv while
                                 (2)
ω̃a is the pull-back of ωa , and R/2 is the two-dimensional Ricci scalar (this may most easily be seen
through an inspection of the relevant Newman–Penrose equations [2]). Thus, the classification of a
MOTT as a trapping horizon becomes a matter of classifying the (A = 0) solutions to this differential
equation (again, see ref. 30 for a related discussion).
    For spherically symmetric slices of Reissner–Nordström horizons and the same symmetry for B,
                                                  
                               (2)R
δ(Bn) θ() = Bδn θ() = B −          + 8π Tab  n
                                               a b
                                                                                                     (8)
                                 2

and it is fairly easy to see that this matches the results of Hayward’s classification. On the outer horizon,
δn θ() = 0 if and only if the black hole is extreme. Equally clearly though, if one breaks the spherical
symmetry of B we will not necessarily always have δn θ() < 0 — a “proper” scaling of the na is crucial
to the classification. A good example of the problems that this can cause arises if we consider black
holes distorted by strong external gravitational fields [27, 32]. There spherical symmetry is broken and
if one does a naive calculation using surfaces of constant time coordinate to foliate the horizon, it does
not appear that this is a FOTH. A more careful analysis is needed to properly classify these horizons.4
    Assuming that one can identify a FOTH, it is clearly a good candidate for an outer black-hole
boundary. That said, it would certainly be convenient to have a more direct way to identify these
structures. It turns out that this is possible if we consider the dynamical horizons (DHs) of Ashtekar
and Krishnan [13]. These are spacelike MTTs — intuitively, if isolated horizons are null one would
expect dynamic and expanding MTTs to be spacelike. As we shall see in Sect. 4.4 this extra condition
is sufficient to allow one to generate flux laws that track how the local flow of quantities across the
dynamical horizon affects such properties as their total area. For now though, we note that the VSI
examples of ref. 31 again demonstrate that the spacelike condition is not quite enough to identify a
black-hole boundary (those examples include dynamical horizons). However, if one also requires a
genericity condition: σ()ab σ()ab + 8π T a b  = 0 plus the null energy condition, then it can be shown
                                           ab
that in this case FOTHs and DHs are equivalent (Sect. 4.2 or ref. 28).
     To gain further insight into the physical relevance of these definitions we now turn to some examples
of spacetimes that include dynamically evolving horizons that may be confidently identified with black
holes.

3.3. Dynamically evolving horizons
    As we have already noted, the quasilocal notions of horizons discussed above formalize the numerical
relativity practice of identifying the outermost MOTS in a spacelike three-surface as a potential black-
hole boundary. Identifying this boundary is obviously physically interesting, but it also has practical
advantages. As we have seen, if the spacetime is asymptotically flat then any marginally trapped surface
must lie within any event horizon, and so the interior of such a region may be safely excised without
affecting the future development of the spacetime.
    Thus, if one consults almost any numerical study of black-hole evolutions (for example, ref. 335 ),
examples of dynamical MOTT or MTT evolution may be found. The “apparent horizon” is sometimes
seen to evolve smoothly in a spacelike manner and sometimes seen to discontinuously “jump” as
new horizons form around old. Unfortunately, given the involved nature of many of these simulations,
complications arising from slicing conditions, and the fact that the interior of the “apparent horizon”
is generally discarded, it can be difficult to use such simulations to build an intuition as to how these
quasilocal horizons generically evolve.

4
    As far as the author is aware, this has not yet been done.
5
    David Hobill. Private communication. 2000.

                                                                                          © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                 1085

Fig. 3. A schematic of a Vaidya spacetime in which two concentric shells of null dust collapse onto a
pre-existing isolated horizon. Isolated horizon sections are labelled, IH, while dynamic horizon (and so
spacelike) regions are labelled DH. Note the difference between the behaviour of the MTT versus the event
horizon shown in Fig. 2.




     As such, exact analytic solutions, though necessarily much simpler than full numerical examples,
play an important role in building an intuition about how these boundaries evolve and which are relevant
for black hole formation and growth. In this subsection we will consider in some detail how MTTs evolve
in Tolman–Bondi spacetimes. It turns out that while these are quite simple exact solutions, their MTTs
demonstrate surprising rich behaviours.
     Before turning to these examples however, we briefly review two even simpler spacetimes and
consider the questions that they raise. To start, consider what are probably the best known examples of
exact dynamical black hole spacetimes — the Vaidya solutions. These represent spherically symmetric
black holes absorbing infalling null dust (thus the stress energy tensor for the spacetime takes the form
Tab = ρna nb where ρ is the dust density). Given the spherical symmetry one can easily identify MOTTs
in these spacetimes and find that θ(n) < 0 and δn θ() < 0. Further, they are either null and isolated if no
matter is falling through them or spacelike and expanding (dynamical horizons) otherwise (Fig. 3 and
refs. 17 and 13). Thus, this example supports the intuition that dynamic MTT evolutions are generically
spacelike.
     Howevever, this initial expectation is confounded by our second example — the Oppenheimer–
Snyder collapse [34]. These spacetimes are generated using spacetime surgery to piece together sections
of Schwarzschild and Robertson–Walker spacetimes to model the gravitational collapse of balls and (or)
shells of uniform density dust. MTTs exist in these spacetimes and are null and isolated if no matter is
falling through them, but timelike and shrinking otherwise; these surfaces, often referred to as timelike
membranes (TLMs), connect isolated horizons either to each other or to the central density singularity
as shown in Fig. 4. Equivalently, δn θ() < 0 in isolation (so that trapped surfaces are inside the horizon)
but in dynamical situations δn θ() > 0 (so that the trapped surfaces lie outside the TLM).
     Now, while the first example shows a smooth expansion of the horizon it appears that the second
may be an example of the “jumping” apparent horizons seen in numerical relatlivity. The question then
arises as to which of these behaviours is generic? In general, do black holes expand smoothly or do
the horizons jump? As neither of these examples is completely satisfactory physically (null dust is very
unusual matter while the second example has density discontinuities as well as other unusual features),
it is hard to draw general conclusions about which represents “most” black-hole evolutions.
     To better understand these evolutions we now turn to examples that are physically slightly more
satisfactory — spherically symmetric, but radially nonhomogeneous, timelike dust collapse.

                                                                                         © 2005 NRC Canada
1086                                                                           Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

Fig. 4. An Oppenheimer–Snyder spacetime in which three consecutive shells of constant density dust fall
into a pre-existing black hole. When no dust crosses the MTT, it is an isolated horizon while when it is
dynamic it is a timelike membrane. Note that the trapped region may be either inside or outside of the MTT
depending on whether it is dynamic or isolated.




3.3.1. MOTS in Tolman–Bondi spacetimes
     From the Tolman–Bondi spacetimes, we can draw a whole series of physically interesting, but still
fairly simple examples of spherical dust collapse. These were recently investigated in some detail in
ref. 35 and here we review some of the results from that paper. As already mentioned, these solutions
model the gravitational collapse of spherically symmetric but radially nonhomogeneous clouds of dust.
They are commonly used to study shell-crossings and the consequent naked singularities (see, for
example, the discussion in ref. 36). However, as we shall now see, they also provide many interesting
examples of MTT spacetimes.
    The combination of pressureless dust and spherical symmetry makes the evolution of these space-
times especially easy to study using only analytical tools. The spherical symmetry means that the
problem reduces to a consideration of the evolution of dust shells while the nature of this matter means
that those shells interact with each other only through the gravitational field. In turn, this means that
tracing the evolution of each dust shell is essentially equivalent to calculating the evolution of radial
geodesics in Schwarzschild spacetime.
    We study these spacetimes by giving initial conditions on a spherically symmetric, spacelike, three-
surface o . We then specify a dust density ρo so that on that surface Tab = ρo ûa ûb , where ûa is the
forward-in-time-pointing unit normal to o . For purposes of this review we will also assume that the
spacetime (and this matter) is instantaneously static at o ; that is, the extrinsic curvature of o vanishes.
Then the three-metric on o is

             dr 2                           
ds 2 =               + r 2 dθ 2 + sin2 θdφ 2                                                            (9)
         1 − 2m(r)/r

where r is the areal radius (so that a sphere with coordinate radius r on                   2
                                                                             o has area 4π r ), θ and φ are
the usual spherical coordinates and
           r             
m(r) =          dr̃ 4π r̃ 2 ρo (r̃)                                                                    (10)
           o

is a mass function — if the mass distribution were to terminate at r then m(r) would be equal to the
ADM mass of the entire spacetime.
    From these initial conditions, the Einstein equations can be solved to evolve the full spacetime.
Then in Gaussian normal coordinates, where τ is the proper time as measured by a fleet of geodesic

                                                                                         © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                               1087

Fig. 5. Collapse of a dust ball to form a black hole.




observers with initial velocity ûa on   o (and so comoving with the dust)

                  (R (τ, r))2
ds 2 = −dτ 2 +                dr 2 + R 2 (τ, r) d2                                                  (11)
                 1 − 2m(r)/r
where R(τ, r) is the areal radius at time τ of the spherical set of observers who had initial areal radius
r, and must be a solution of

             dR(τ, r)    2m(r)      R(τ, r)
Ṙ(τ, r) ≡            =−         1−                                                                  (12)
               dτ        R(τ, r)      r

R(τ, r) = ∂R(τ, r)/∂r and the stress-energy tensor keeps the form Tab = ρ(τ, r)∇a τ ∇b τ .
    All of these quantities may be obtained analytically since (12) may be parametrically integrated.
Details may be found in ref. 35.
    Since our spacetime is spherically symmetric, we search for MOTS that share this symmetry. Fo-
cussing our attention of these surfaces one can show that, up to multiplication by positive functions of
r and τ
                     √                                           √
        2 Ṙ(τ, r) + 1 − 2m(r)/r                      Ṙ(τ, r) − 1 − 2m(r)/r
θ() =                                   and θ(n) =                                                 (13)
                   R(τ, r)                                      R(τ, r)
Then, consulting (12), we then find that θ() = 0 if and only if R(τ, r) = 2m(r), and on that surface we
always have θ(n) < 0. Thus, all quasilocal horizons in this spacetime are marginally trapped tubes (or
future trapping horizons whenever L n θ()  = 0).

3.3.2. Examples
    Generating examples of MTT evolutions is then simply a matter of picking initial matter distribution
functions ρo (r) and evolving the data in time. Some care needs to be taken in picking initial matter
distributions to avoid shell-crossings but a great amount of freedom remains. Some examples are shown
in Figs. 5–7.
    Figure 5 shows the collapse of a spherical symmetric cloud of dust with an (initial) Gaussian density
function. In Fig. 5, all measurements are made relative to the ADM mass, mo , of the dust cloud. Part (a)

                                                                                        © 2005 NRC Canada
1088                                                                                    Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

Fig. 6. Large shell of constant density falls “into” a small black hole.




Fig. 7. Complicated dust distributions collapse to form a black hole.




shows the initial mass distribution while part (b) shows how the horizon (the thick black line) evolves
as a function of τ . The other lines in (b) trace the paths of infalling dust shells. Note that the horizon
forms as the first shells collapse to zero area (and infinite density). It then grows from the singularity
before asymptoting to R = 2mo as most of the mass has fallen into the newly formed hole. Though we
do not do so here, it is straightforward to show that the horizon is spacelike throughout this expansion
and that L n θ() < 0. Thus, this is both a dynamical and a future outer trapping horizon.
    Figure 6 shows another dramatic situation. In this case the initial configuration is a small black hole
of mass mo surrounded by a huge cloud of constant density dust with a total mass of 600mo .6 Note

6
    Though initial black holes were not discussed in the above, they may easily be inserted into the initial data using
    spacetime surgery to excise and connect regions of suitable spacetimes. See ref. 35 for the details.

                                                                                                   © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                1089

that the density distribution is defined in terms of error functions and so, despite initial appearances,
is smooth everywhere. The evolution of this distribution is shown in (b) where we see a slow initial
growth followed by a “jump” at τ ≈ 3000mo as a new horizon forms at R ≈ 1202 around the old. It is
fairly easy to show that the segment connecting the new horizon to the old is a timelike membrane.
    Alternatively, we can trace the evolution as a function of R. Then, it begins as an isolated horizon
(before the first dust shells hit), becomes a dynamical horizon (during the initial expansion), transitions
through a null (but not isolated) instant to become a timelike membrane (heading backwards in time),
and then goes back to being dynamical before asymptoting towards isolation. Thus, it is a future trapping
horizon everywhere except when it passes through the null instants to transit from being a FOTH to
being a FITH. During those instants L n θ() = 0.
    Finally, Fig. 7 shows an example of a more complicated initial dust distribution and subsequent
collapse. In this observers defining instants of simultaneity as surfaces of constant τ would see new
horizons form outside of old ones on four distinct occasions. In each case a DH/TLM (or FOTH/FITH)
pair would appear with the DH (FOTH) growing and the TLM (FITH) shrinking. Further, on four
separate occasions these shrinking “horizons” would meet up with growing ones and disappear. Each
of the creation and destruction events occurs on a surface of L n θ() = 0.
    Note that even though the MTTs are seen to become timelike in two of these examples and so may
be crossed by causally evolving observers, this does not mean that these TLMs may be used as escape
hatches from the black holes. As is discussed in ref. 35, such observers may temporarily escape the
trapped region but are always doomed to be recaptured.
    It is also of some interest to consider the physical circumstances under which the horizon “jumps”
can occur. Again it is shown in ref. 35 that these jumps occur when the infalling matter is dense relative
to 1/A, where A is the surface area of the horizon. For a solar-mass black hole this means that jumps
occur only when the infalling matter is at least as dense as a neutron star while it is only when one gets
to galactic-mass black holes that jumps could be generated by matter with the density of water. This
suggests an answer to the question posed in relation to the Vaidya and Oppenheimer–Snyder spacetimes.
Both evolutions can occur but “jumps” only happen under very extreme conditions (for small black
holes). Essentially they correspond to new horizons forming outside of old ones.
    One of the surprising observations from these examples is that FOTHs/DHs do not necessarily last
forever once they are formed. They may appear and disappear, though apparently according to strict rules
that always leave the trapped region shrouded from outside observers. The formations and destructions
are signalled by the presence of TLMs that connect new horizons to old. How far this behaviour extends
into nonspherically symmetric cases is currently unknown but, in particular, it seems possible that the
multiple θ() = 0 surfaces sometimes seen inside a numerical “apparent” horizon (ref. 33 and footnote 5)
may actually represent one (or possibly a few) MTTs weaving backwards and forwards in time. We will
come back to this point in Sect. 5.

4. Properties of quasilocal horizons
   We now review some properties that follow from the definitions set forth in the last section.

4.1. Existence and uniqueness
    While it is clear from both numerical simulations and our examples that the quasilocal horizons
discussed in the previous section exist under a wide range of circumstances, there is surprisingly little
known about what mathematical conditions are needed to guarantee this existence. Slightly more is
known about the lack of uniqueness of apparent horizons and (or) MOTTs. In particular, it is known
that in general a MOTS can be distorted and so any MOTT will be highly non-unique [37]. Even more
dramatically, it has been shown that apparent horizons are completely absent from some slicings of
Schwarzschild spacetime [38]. That said, recent work has shed new light on both of these questions and
we now review these results, starting with existence.

                                                                                         © 2005 NRC Canada
1090                                                                             Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

4.1.1. Existence
     Assume that a spacetime (M, gab ) is foliated with spacelike hypersurfaces t (with all fields and
surfaces smooth). Further assume that on a slice o of that foliation, there exists a MOTS and, for some
function β, the variation δβ r̂ θ() > 0 everywhere on So , where r̂ a is the outward pointing unit normal
vector to So in o . Then, from our discussion in Sect. 3.2, there are trapped surfaces in o “just inside”
So , and So is said to be strictly stably outermost (SSO).
     It has been shown very recently [30] that these conditions imply that So is part of a marginally
outer-trapped tube H such that each leaf Sv of H lies in some leaf t of the spacetime foliation. That
is, Sv = H ∩ t (v) for some function t (v). Further, H exists at least as long as the Sv remains SSO
                                                                 ab + 8π T a b  = 0. Else it is null (and
and, if the null energy condition holds, is spacelike if σ()ab σ()        ab
so isolated). Note that no condition has been imposed on θ(n) .
     Given this result, MOTSs will always evolve into MOTTs in numerical relativity at least until the
SSO condition is violated. Based on the Tolman–Bondi examples of the last section, we already have
a good idea of when such violations might occur. Examples of such violations were seen in Figs. 6
and 7 where the marginally trapped tubes transition from being spacelike to being timelike and heading
backwards in time (and exactly where δn θ() = 0). In those situations the MOTT will necessarily become
(momentarily) tangent to any foliation of spacetime and so the existence theorem fails — which is a
good thing since we have seen in these examples that the tube does not continue to smoothly evolve
forwards in time relative to the foliation. Thus, the theorem is consistent with our examples.
     We note however that violations can also occur as a result of (unfortunate) foliation choices. Though
we have not discussed such examples here, ref. 35 shows that it is fairly easy to generate foliations that
are (at least temporarily) tangent to a dynamical horizon and even interweave it. This is a function of a
foliation choice rather than physical or mathematical necessity, but we note that in these cases the SSO
condition (but not δn θ() < 0) would also be violated. That said, in these examples, the MTT again
fails to continue evolving “forward in time” relative to the foliation and so the existence theorem is still
consistent.

4.1.2. Uniqueness
     There are two distinct types of uniqueness that may be considered with respect to quasilocally
defined horizons. First, given a MOTT, is it possible to foliate it into MOTSs in more than one way?
Second, given a spacetime with two or more MOTTs (produced, for example, by alternate foliations of
the full spacetime) are there any restrictions on how they may be positioned relative to each other? A
recent paper by Ashtekar and Galloway [28] addresses both of these issues.
     The first issue is completely resolved for (globally) achronal FOTHs (or equivalently achronal
dynamical horizons that satisfy σ()ab σ()ab + 8π T a b  = 0). In this case, it is shown that the foliation
                                                    ab
of a FOTH is unique and so it is impossible to refoliate it in any other way. Thus, in these cases the
foliation is an intrinsic property of the hypersurface. This can be contrasted with the situation for isolated
horizons. No mention of a foliation is made in the definition of those structures, neither is it needed
since a is defined as the normal to H as a whole rather than some two-surface. Indeed it is not hard
to see that isolated horizons will admit many possible foliations (and consequent definitions of na , the
in-horizon normal to those two-surfaces). Note too that timelike membranes are not achronal either and
so possible refoliations of them are not forbidden by the theorem.
     One immediate implication of this theorem arises if we consider the dependence of apparent horizons
on spacetime foliations. To see this, assume that we have a foliation t of a spacetime M and have used
it to identify a compatible FOTH, so that St = t ∩ H . Now let t be a second foliation so that the
St = t ∩ H are not the same set of two-surfaces as the St (i.e., the foliations are not tangent at H ).
Then, by the uniqueness result, the St cannot be MOTS. Thus, any H identified with respect to the new
foliation cannot coincide with H and so, as expected, FOTHs determined in this way must vary with
the foliation of the spacetime.
                                                                                            © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                1091

Fig. 8. A schematic showing an MTS that transitions from isolated–dynamical–TLM–dynamical–isolated.
The large dots indicate transitions points between these behaviours. The broken lines are null surfaces
and the shading indicates regions where the uniqueness theorems forbid the existence of a weakly trapped
surface.




    This paper also sheds light on the second issue. It is shown that, given the null energy condition and
a regular dynamical horizon and (or) achronal FOTH H , no weakly trapped surface can be contained
in D − (H ), the past domain of dependence of H . An application of this theorem to a specific MTS with
two regular dynamical horizon regions is depicted in Fig. 8. There, the past domains of dependence are
shown as shaded regions.

    There are several immediate implications of this result. First, it is clear that a spacetime cannot
be foliated by regular dynamical horizons. If this were possible then there would certainly be weakly
trapped surfaces in the past of each horizon. In this context, we note that the VSI examples considered
                         ab + 8π T a b  = 0 condition and so are consistent with this theorem. Note,
earlier fail the σ()ab σ()      ab
however, that it does not forbid weakly trapped surfaces having components that lie in D − (H ). For
example, it would be possible to have a second dynamical horizon H that “interweaves” with the first
so that each MOTS lies partly in the past and partly in the future of H . Thus, while multiple dynamical
horizons are certainly allowed by this theorem, their behaviour is strongly constrained. In the example of
horizons generated by spacetime foliations, we then know that while different foliations will necessarily
generate different horizons, those horizons will just as necessarily be constrained to repeatedly intersect
each other.

    Finally, before moving on, we will briefly discuss trapping boundaries [11]. It has been proposed
that an invariantly defined trapping horizon could be defined in an analogous way to how apparent
horizons are obtained. Specifically, one would find the union of all of the points in a spacetime that lie
on any trapped surface and so define a trapped region. The three-dimensional boundary of this region is
the trapping boundary and it was shown that, given certain assumptions about the relationship between
the trapped surfaces and some foliation of the trapping boundary, it must be a trapping horizon. If
these conditions are generically met, then this construction would give us a canonical trapping horizon.
Unfortunately (see the discussion of wild MTSs in ref. 37 and the discussion in ref. 28), it appears that
that the assumptions are probably not satisfied in general. Instead, it seems likely (though it has not
been proven) that the trapping boundary will actually turn out to be the event horizon — in general, the
wild MTSs will sample the far future and so can access the necessary information to locate the event
horizon.

                                                                                         © 2005 NRC Canada
1092                                                                            Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

4.2. Laws of expansion
    As was discussed in Sect. 2.1, one of the best known properties of classical, causally defined, black
holes is that, given the null energy condition, they never decrease in area. It was first shown in ref. 11
this is also true for certain classes of quasilocal horizons. Using dual null foliations of the type discussed
in Sect. 3.2, the argument is fairly straightforward though we will modify its statement a little here.
    Let H be a FOTH and let V a ∈ T H be a tangent vector field that satisfies V · n < 0 and is both
foliation generating and orthogonal to those foliation two-surfaces. Then, if the null-energy condition
holds the area increase theorem says that either: (i) H is null and isolated or (ii) H is spacelike and
L V ≥ 0. That is, under the flow generated by V a the area element    never decreases in magnitude and
hence the same holds true for the area of the Sv two-surfaces.
    In considering this result, note that the V · n condition picks the orientation of V a and in particular
this ensures that it points forwards-in-time when H is isolated. This, combined with the second two
conditions means that for a given foliation parameter v, we may always choose the normalization of a
such that V a = a − Cna for some function C (which we will refer to as the expansion parameter) and
L V v = 1. The result then follows quite simply. Since θ() = 0 everywhere on H we must have
                                              L  θ()
L V θ() = L  θ() − CL n θ() = 0 ⇔ C =                                                                (14)
                                              L n θ()
The division is always possible since L n θ() < 0 by assumption. Meanwhile by the Raychaudhuri
equation (1) and the null energy condition L  θ() ≤ 0. Then C ≥ 0 everywhere on H and C = 0 if
and only if the horizon is temporarily (or permanently) isolated. Further, note that V · V = 2C and
so H is either null (and thus an isolated horizon) or spacelike (and so a dynamical horizon). Finally,
L V = −Cθ(n)    where θ(n) < 0 by assumption and so the horizon never decreases in area. It is also
clear that if the null-energy condition is violated (as it would be by Hawking radiation) then we could
have L  θ() > 0 and so a FOTH that decreases in area.
    From these considerations, it is clear that a dynamical horizon that satisfies the genericity condition
(which may be essentially be rephrased as L  θ()  = 0) is necessarily a FOTH; it is spacelike which
means that C > 0 and so, in turn, we must have L n θ() < 0. However, even without the genericity
condition, C > 0 is sufficient to ensure that a dynamical horizon expands in area (as indeed the non-black
hole DHs do in the VSI examples [31]). By contrast the strictly stably outermost MOTTs considered in
Sect. 4.1.1 do not necessarily increase in area as there no assumption was made about the sign of θ(n) .
    Timelike membranes and (or) FITHs necessarily decrease in area. At first this might appear to be
a conundrum given some of the Tolman–Bondi examples which always seem to expand. The apparent
difficulty is resolved when one realizes that the area increase theorem (reasonably) assumes that V a
on a TLM will be oriented to point forwards-in-time. With this orientation, the TLMs seen in the
examples do shrink and this is certainly a valid way to view their evolution. If, however, one demands
that V a be consistently oriented with a foliation parameter v on the MTT, with v always increasing
forwards-in-time on isolated sections, then one naturally has V a pointing backwards-in-time on TLM
sections. Thus, in all of our examples we have dA/dv ≥ 0. With this perspective, we can see that if
an MTT interpolates between two asymptotically isolated regions, the later isolated horizon (relative to
the foliation parameter) will always have a larger area then the earlier.

4.3. Topology
    In the preceding discussions, we have often implicitly assumed a spherical topology for MOTS. In
fact, for an outer trapping horizon that satisfies the dominant energy condition, this is not an assumption
but follows directly from the Einstein equations. To see this integrate equation (7) over the MOTS with
Xa = na to obtain
                                                
       1
χ=            −δn θ() + ω̃a ω̃a + 8π Tab a nb
                                                                                                      (15)
       π Sv
                                                                                           © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                      1093

where we have used the well-known result that the integral of the Ricci scalar over a two-surface is the
topological invariant 2π χ, with χ equal to the Euler characteristic of the surface. Now, by the δn θ() < 0
assumption and the dominant energy condition the right-hand side of this equation is positive and so
χ must be postive as well. However, the only closed and orientable two-surfaces with positive Euler
characteristic are spheres. Thus, the two-surfaces foliating an outer trapping horizon (including FOTHs)
must be spheres. This result was first shown specifically for trapping horizons in ref. 11 but has been
known for some time for strictly stably outermost MOTSs [30, 39].
    It has been noted ref. 13 that this result is left unchanged in the presence of a positive cosmological
constant but fails for  < 0. In that case, a negative term enters the right-hand side of (15) and so it
is no longer strictly positive. Then, alternative topologies are allowed, which is in accord with the fact
that event horizons with such topologies can exist in asymptotically anti-deSitter spacetimes [40].

4.4. Flux laws
     Given the area increase laws, in an ideal world we would also like to have a corresponding set
of flux laws that describe how incoming energy and matter flows generate those increases. A priori,
it is not at all obvious that such laws could actually exist given that the process will, in general, be
highly dynamical and so one might expect that it could be impossible to localize these contributions.
Surprisingly, this does not seem to be the case. It has been shown that for dynamical horizons [13] a
whole range of such flux laws exist. This was extended to certain classes of FOTHs (and so transitions
to and from isolation) in ref. 41 . Finally, results from ref. 30 appear to imply that this class may include
all strictly stably outermost FOTHs. Thus, for a wide class of horizons we have quasilocal flux laws
that govern their growth.
     Our review of these developments begins with the original result [13]. Given a dynamical horizon
H , we can define its forward-in-time pointing unit normal τ̂a to H and a spacelike unit tangent vector
field r̂ a that is normal to each of the Sv and whose orientation is chosen by requiring that r̂ · n < 0.
Then, the flux laws originate from the following observation:

H + 2r̂ a Ha = (2) R − σ ab   )ab − 2ζ ζa + 2da ζ + (terms that vanish when θ() = 0)
                          ˆ σ( ˆ
                                       a          a
                                                                                                            (16)
                          ()

where H and Ha are the Hamiltonian and diffeomorphism constraints on H and so satisfy H+2r̂ a Ha =
16π ˆa Tab τ̂ b , while ˆa = τ̂a + r̂a , and ζa = r̂ b ∇b ˆ a (where the arrow subscript indicates a pull-back
                                                              ←−
to Sv ).
     Then, as for the topology calculation, we integrate (16) over Sv (this time using the fact that χ = 2)
to find that
                                                                    
8π =        16π Tab (τ̂ a + r̂ a )τ̂ b + σ ab
                                               σ
                                               ˆ (ˆ
                                                  )ab  + 2ζ   a
                                                                 ζ a                                         (17)
                                         ()
        Sv

For any function 4F (v) we can then use the fundamental theorem of calculus to write
                                                                       
                         (H )                 Nr  ab
F (v2 ) − F (v1 ) =          Tab ξra τ̂ b +      σ ˆ σ( ˆ)ab + 2ζ a ζa                                    (18)
                     H21                     16π ()
                                                                                                  (H )
where the integration is over some section of a dynamical horizon bounded by S1 and S2 ,  = ±r̂ ∧      
is the natural volume form on this spacelike surface, NF = ||dv|| dF      , and  ξ a = N ˆa . N may be
                                                                       dv          r       r    F
identified as a natural lapse function associated with the function F while ξra is the corresponding (null)
time vector field.
    Equation (18) is the Ashtekar–Krishan flux law for any quantity F (v) that may be defined on each
Sv expressing its change in terms of a matter flux across the H , a shear term (usually interpreted as a
flux of gravitational wave-type energy) and the ζ a ζa term (whose meaning is not so clear though see
                                                                                              © 2005 NRC Canada
1094                                                                                  Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005
                                                                                                 √
ref. 42 for one interpretation). Particularly interesting quantities include the irreducible mass A/16π
and A/4 (in which case the flux law might be interpreted as measuring the flow of entropy).
     In this original form, there are difficulties in taking the isolated limit — many of the quantities are
defined in terms of r̂ a and τ̂ a , which, in turn, are only well-defined for spacelike H . However, recent
developments suggest that this limit may be fully achievable. In ref. 41, it was pointed out that if one
switches to the coordinate dependent volume form dv ∧          and defines

           dF a                               dF a
˜a =         τ̂ + r̂ a       and    ña =       τ̂ − r̂ a                                                  (19)
           dv                                 dv
then we can rewrite equation (18) as
                     v2         
                                                  1  ab                         
F (v2 ) − F (v1 ) =      dv      Tab ˜a τ̃ b +
                                                    σ( ˜) σ( ˜)ab + 2ζ̃ a ζ̃a                            (20)
                     v1      Sv                  16π

where the various quantities have been rewritten in terms of ˜a and ña . These will then remain well-
defined in the isolated limit if dF /dv → 0 sufficiently quickly to keep the new null vectors both nonzero
and nondivergent. This limiting process will be considered in more detail7 (see also the discussion in
ref. 13) but for now, note that it only really has a chance of being well-defined if any transition between
dynamical and isolated regions happens “all at once”. That is, for no Sv is H partly dynamical and
partly isolated. Equivalently, on a given Sv either C = 0 everywhere or nowhere. Now, while it might
seem unlikely that such transitions would be generic, in fact ref. 30 proves just this result for strictly
stably outermost MOTTs.
     There are also flux laws for angular momentum [13]. We do not discuss them here but note that they
are essentially the same as those governing the angular momentum evolution of timelike tubes [43];
they are not restricted to dynamical horizons and actually hold for any three-surface regardless of its
signature. A nice discussion of these laws may be found in ref. 44. There it is shown that the fluxes
may be physically interpreted by viewing the evolving horizon as a viscous fluid and the flux laws as a
version of the Navier–Stokes equations.

4.5. Slowly evolving horizons
    The limiting process considered above occurs in the regime of “almost isolated” horizons. This
is also the regime where one would expect the classical results of black-hole perturbation theory to
apply and would include many, if not most, astrophysical processes — the exceptions being especially
dramatic events like the final stages of black-hole mergers. Finally, one would expect that the black-
hole analogues of thermodynamic quasi-equilibrium states would be “almost isolated”, and so physical
process versions of the laws of black-hole mechanics should apply here. Thus, an investigation of such
states is of considerable physical interest. A couple of approaches have been used to study this limit.
Here, we will focus on that taken in ref. 458 and footnote 7though the interested reader is also referred
to ref. 46 for an alternative.
    A slowly evolving horizon is an “almost isolated” FOTH. Now, it is not immediately obvious that
such a characterization is possible. In particular, what does it mean for a spacelike (or timelike) surface
to be “almost” null and how can this be expressed in an invariant manner? In ref. 45, we proposed that
if one regularizes a against the FOTH foliation parameter v so that L V v = 1 (with V = a − Cna as
before), the key condition for identifying a FOTH as slowly evolving over some slice Sv is that
               ε
   |C||θ(n) | <                                                                                        (21)
                R
7
    I. Booth and S. Fairhurst. Slowly evolving horizons. Manuscript in preparation.
8
    W. Kavanagh and I. Booth. Examples of slowly evolving horizons. Manuscript in preparation.

                                                                                               © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                           1095

where ε  1 and R is the areal radius of Sv . The first thing to note is that this expression is invariant
under rescalings of a → αa , since in this case C → α 2 C and na → α1 na . Thus, this is a geometrically
meaningful statement to make. Next, it is clear that this parameter vanishes
                                                                      √      for isolated horizons. Finally,
                                                                 = C/2θ(n) 
on a dynamical horizon where r̂ a = V a /|V|, we note that L r̂                 < (ε/R)   and so in the
approach to isolation our parameter is a measure of the geometrically invariant rate of change (and it
goes to zero).9
    That said, the chief justification for viewing a FOTH that satisfies these conditions as slowly evolving
comes from its utility in calculations and its applicability to situations that one would intuitively consider
to be quasi-equilibrium states. Thus, it has been shown in footnote 8 that classical examples of perturbed
black holes, such as a Schwarzschild black hole immersed in a slowly changing tidal field [47], satisfy
all of the requirements necessary to be classed as slowly evolving. A second example comes from
considering the collapse of dust balls, such as those shown in Fig. 5. In those cases, it has been shown
that while MTTs may not be slowly evolving just after formation, they rapidly asymptote to this condition
as the amount of matter crossing the horizon also asymptotes to zero (again see footnote 8).
    Thus, at least as much as is possible for a spacelike surface, it seems reasonable to view slowly
evolving horizons as “almost isolated". Then, an analysis of the implications of these assumptions on
the Einstein equations gives rise to other results that further support our interpretation. In particular, it can
be shown that all other physical and geometrical quantities on the FOTH are also slowly evolving (this
time relative to Lie derivatives with respect to V, which has been normalized so that V · V = 2C ∼ ε 2 ).
For example, the surface shears slowly and any flow of matter across it is small. Further, it can be
shown that κV = −nb V a ∇a b is constant (up to order ε) over an particular Sv and L V κV is similarly
small. Then, as this expression clearly reduces to the usual surface gravity in isolation, it is natural to
identify it as the approximate surface gravity here as well. Next, a careful analysis of the diffeomorphism
constraint on H shows that it reduces to

 κ  dA                                            
      o                         1
              ≈     Tab   +
                              a b        ab
                                  σ()ab σ()                                                                    (22)
    8π     dv   Sv             8π


to lowest order in our approximation. We do not discuss how angular momentum terms may be included
in this expression here. However, they certainly can be and the interested reader is referred to ref. 45
and footnote 7
    The analogy with quasi-equilibrium states in thermodynamics is clear. Just as such objects may be
assigned a temperature, in this case we may assign a surface gravity to the hole. It is not completely
constant and can slowly change but this is expected behaviour for a system that is nearly in equilbrium
with itself and its surroundings. Further, in the quasi-equilibrium regime of thermodynamics one expects
the physical process version of the first law to be expressible in the form Ė = T Ṡ = Ẇ . This is exactly
the form seen in (22) if one identifies surface gravity with temperature and entropy with area in the
usual way. Note too that the right-hand side also matches the form for energy flows across a perturbed
event horizon first found in refs. 47 and 48.
    The precise relationship between (22) and the Ashtekar–Krishnan flux law (20) is not immediately
clear. For example, the null vectors appearing in the laws have very different behaviours in the isolated
limit and there is no ζ 2 term in (22). This will be discussed in detail in footnote 7

9
    There are also a few other technical conditions that a horizon must meet to be considered slowly evolving. These
    are chiefly restrictions on the environment surrounding the FOTH to ensure that it is not too extreme — if this is
    the case then the horizon will not remain slowly evolving for very long. One suspects that the restrictions may
    also eliminate many, if not all, of the “wild” MTSs discussed in Sect. 4.1.2.

                                                                                                  © 2005 NRC Canada
1096                                                                          Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

4.6. A Hamiltonian formulation
    Both the flux laws and slowly evolving horizons are concerned with the exchange of energy and
angular momentum between black holes and their environment. That said, in neither case is a specific
expression for the energy singled out by the respective formalisms — the flux laws can essentially
be applied to any increasing function while the first law for slowly evolving horizons also allows for
a rescaling freedom in a (and, therefore, κV ) essentially equivalent to the one allowed for isolated
horizons. In an ideal world, this freedom would be reduced or eliminated and that is a major reason for
examining these horizons from a Hamiltonian perspective.
    Such an analysis was conducted in ref. 49. The calculations are long and involved but the basic ideas
behind them are straightforward. In that paper, quasilocal horizons are examined from both Lagrangian
and Hamiltonian perspectives. The Lagrangian approach is of the style used in ref. 43 and so begins by
identifying a quasilocal action whose first variation vanishes for solutions to the Einstein equations that
include one of these horizons as a boundary. A Hamiltonian functional is then derived using a Legendre
transform and Hamilton–Jacobi arguments. By this process, it is found that the action formulation is
well defined if, on the horizon boundary, one sets θ() = 0 as well as fixing the angular-momentum
one-form ω̃a and induced two-metric q̃ab on the foliation two-surfaces (up to diffeomorphisms). Further,
one has to fix the pull-back  a to H — essentially a gauge-fix so that specifying ω̃a (the connection
                               ←−
on the Sv normal bundle) is physically meaningful. Thus, only a MOTT is needed to get a well-defined
action principle and conditions on θ(n) and the proximity of trapped surfaces are not necessary.
    From the analysis it turns out that only functionals of the fixed data q̃ab , ω̃a , and  a are allowed
                                                                                             ←−
as energies associated with the MOTT. While this, unfortunately, does not completely eliminate the
freedom found in the earlier analyses it does reduce it greatly while still allowing for most common
energy expressions. These conclusions are confirmed and re-examined using an extended phase-space
analysis in the style of ref. 50. One advantage of these methods is they let one say something about
angular momentum in addition to energy. In particular, in this case they uniquely select an expression for
angular momentum and this expression precisely matches those appearing in the previous formalisms.
    Finally, largely based on the Hamiltonian perspective, it was seen that certain physical arguments
allow one to say more about energy and the flow of time. Specifically, one requires that the expression
for energy (i) be dimensionally correct, (ii) be constant for isolated horizons, and (iii) scale linearly
with some notion of time. Then, based on the allowed freedom in the energy expression one is lead to
identify a as the natural time vector field (which, in contrast to usual Hamiltonian formulations, does
not generate evolutions of the boundary). A scaling of a is forced by the formalism and it turns out that
this makes it essentially identical to the ˜a appearing in (20). Finally, again based on the requirements,
the allowed energy expressions are closely tied to a and, though still not completely specified, shown
to be constant in isolation and increasing
                                   √         on dynamical horizons (in agreement with the flux laws). It is
argued that the irreducible mass A/16π is then a natural candidate for the energy.

5. Overview and outlook
     Perhaps the most basic motivation for the study of quasilocal horizons is the philosophy that black
holes should be thought of as physical objects in a spacetime that may be identified and quantified by
local measurements. This contrasts with causally defined black holes and event horizons that are defined
from the asymptotic causal structure; with such a definition, it is hard to imagine how physical processes
could possibly be dependent on the location of the event horizon. Any such interactions would have
to be nonlocal, almost certainly noncausal, and so violate some of our most fundamental ideas about
physics. This is then a strong argument for the nonphysicality of event horizons and a need for some
replacement.
     Of course there is a potential flaw in the above argument. The basis-motivating idea could be wrong.
It is certainly possible that while event horizons may not be particularly physical there may also be no

                                                                                         © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                                        1097

replacement for them. In this case, black holes would be fundamentally different from other objects in
the Universe such as stars, elephants, and toasters. They would be symptomatic of strong gravitational
fields but have no meaning independent of those fields. Then, interactions with black holes could only
be understood in the context of the global evolution of spacetime and it might not make sense to discuss
such things as the exchange of energy and angular momentum between a black hole and its environment.
    This seems unlikely. Results such as black-hole mechanics, energy exchange mechanisms (for
example, the Penrose process), a well-developed perturbation theory of known solutions, and an equally
well-developed infrastructure for calculating the gravitational waves emitted by black holes interacting
with their surroundings all suggest that, at least in some regime, we should be able to view black holes
as objects for physical study.
    Given that the association of trapped surfaces with black holes actually precedes that of event
horizons, they provide the obvious candidate for a definitive black-hole signature. In particular, it
is well known that their appearance implies both spacetime singularities and the existence of event
horizons. Further, they play a key role in the definition of apparent horizons, which are essentially the
boundary of the region of trapped surfaces at some “instant” of time. Then, we have argued that one can
quasilocally identify a black-hole boundary by finding a three-surface that is marginally trapped (with
θ() = 0 and θ(n) < 0) and bounds a region in which all points lie on a trapped surface.
    A chief concern with this definition is that such surfaces are not invariantly defined. We have
seen that this freedom may be constrained though certainly not entirely eliminated. Thus, it appears
that we must accept that quasilocal black-hole boundaries are non-unique and so, in a sense, observer
dependent.10 This is not necessarily a problem — as long as all set of observers agree in their conclusions
and predictions (appropriately transformed between reference frames) no physical principles will be
violated.
    That said, if one is chiefly interested in using these tools to better understand physical processes
that may be seen by far-away observers, we need to be a bit more careful. Since we are dealing with
marginally trapped surfaces, causal signals emitted directly from these horizons cannot escape from
the hole but instead must head further into its depths (or at best remain on the horizon). Therefore,
anything seen by those far-away observers must be a consequence of the environment interacting with
the hole’s external field rather than the horizon directly (this applies to event horizons as well and is a key
motivating idea behind the membrane paradigm [51]). Thus, to be useful in trying to better understand
far-field observations, our quasilocal horizons must act as proxies for that near field. For this purpose,
their utility is in characterizing that near field by closely reflecting its evolution.
    With this in mind, consider a highly dynamical process in which multiple horizons develop along
the lines of the example shown in Fig. 7. Then there is no reason to expect the behaviour of inner
horizons, buried deep inside the hole, to be especially useful in interpreting, say, the gravitational waves
emitted by this process. In fact, in a sufficiently dramatic evolution one probably would not expect even
the outermost horizon to closely reflect the near-field geometry. Based on these observations, it seems
likely one could only expect a direct correlation between horizon behaviours and far-field observations
in certain regimes — one of which would probably be slowly evolving horizons. In these regimes,
however, it should be possible to ask (and answer) many interesting physical questions. For example,
one could study how the multipole moments of the horizon [52] determine how it interacts with its
environment and gains and (or) loses energy and angular momentum.
    Physically, these are the most obviously relevant problems, however there are also interesting ques-
tions of a more mathematical interest. For example, we have seen that it is possible to have (spherically

10
 The precise sense is as follows. Consider the MOTS to be outermost trapped surfaces as located in some t foliation
 of spacetime — that is, numerical and (or) vernacular “apparent” horizons. Further, consider that foliation to be
 hypersurfaces of “constant time” as determined by a fleet of observers with clocks that were synchronized on
 some initial hypersurface. Then, as we have seen, different fleets will observe different MTTs.

                                                                                               © 2005 NRC Canada
1098                                                                          Can. J. Phys. Vol. 83, 2005

symmetric) spacetimes with complicated MTTs that weave backwards and forwards through time and
so appear as multiple horizons on a given hypersurface. Further, numerical simulations, see ref. 33
and footnote 5, often show multiple horizons at a given “instant”. Thus, it is natural to speculate that
these may actually correspond to (a smaller number of) MTTs weaving backwards and forwards in
time, or even just intersecting the foliation in nontrivial ways. Other interesting topics for investigation
would include a more detailed understanding of the non-uniqueness of MTTs and the possibility that
the trapping boundary might actually coincide with the event horizon. Such a result would be especially
interesting as it would provide an alternative way of identifying “event horizons” — without reference
to global causal structure.
    These and other questions about quasilocal horizons can be cleanly defined and are mathematically
both interesting and yet relatively accessible. Thus, it seems likely that the next few years will see a
rapid development in our understanding of quasilocal horizons and a concordant growth of applications
of these ideas to physical and numerical problems.

Acknowledgements
     This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada and
is loosely based on a talk given by the author at the 11th Canadian Conference on General Relativity
and Relativistics Astrophysics (which was held at the University of British Columbia in May 2005).

References
 1. S.W. Hawking and G.F.R. Ellis. The large scale structure of space-time. Cambridge University Press,
    Cambridge. 1973.
 2. S. Chandrasekhar. The mathematical theory of black holes. Oxford University Press, Oxford. 1983.
 3. R.M. Wald. General relativity. University of Chicago Press, Chicago. 1984.
 4. J.M. Bardeen, B. Carter, and S.W. Hawking. Commun. Math. Phys. 31, 161 (1973).
 5. J.D. Bekenstein. Phys. Rev. D, 7, 2333 (1973); S.W. Hawking. Commun. Math. Phys. 43, 199 (1975).
 6. R. Narayan. New J. Phys. 7, 199 (2005).
 7. J.H. Krolik. Active galactic nuclei. Princeton University Press, Princeton. 1999.
 8. See for example the homepages of LIGO: www.ligo.caltech.edu; VIRGO: www.virgo.infn.it; GEO600:
    www.geo600.unihannover.de; TAMA: tamago.mtk.nao.ac.jp; and LISA: lisa.jpl.nasa.gov.
 9. R. Penrose. Phys. Rev. Lett. 14, 57 (1964).
10. T.W. Baumgarte and S.L. Shapiro. Phys. Rep. 376, 41 (2003).
11. S.A. Hayward. Phys. Rev. D49, 6467 (1994).
12. A. Ashtekar, C. Beetle, O. Dreyer, S. Fairhurst, B. Krishnan, J. Lewandowski, and J. Wiśniewski. Phys.
    Rev. Lett. 85, 3564 (2000).
13. A. Ashtekar and B. Krishnan. Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 261101 (2002); Phys. Rev. D, 68, 104030 (2003).
14. A. Ashtekar, J. Baez, and K. Krasnov. Adv. Theor. Math. Phys. 4, 1 (2000); A. Ashtekar, J. Engle, and C.
    Van Den Broeck. Class. Quantum Grav. 22, L27 (2005).
15. V. Husain and O. Winkler. Quantum black holes, gr-qc/0412039 (2005). A. Ashtekar and M. Bojowald.
    Class. Quant. Grav. 22, 3349 (2005). S.A. Hayward. Formation and evaporation of regular black holes,
    gr-qc/0506126 (2005).
16. P.T. Chruściel. Lect. Notes Phys. 604, 61 (2002).
17. E. Poisson. A relativist’s toolkit: The mathematics of black-hole mechanics. Cambridge University Press,
    Cambridge. 2004.
18. R.M. Wald. Living Rev. Rel. 4, 6 (2001).
19. T. Pawlowski, J. Lewandowski, and J. Jezierski. Class. Quantum Grav. 21, 1237 (2004).
20. W. Israel. Can. J. Phys. 64, 120 (1986); Phys. Rev. Lett. 56, 789 (1986).
21. M. Kriele and S. Hayward. J. Math. Phys. 38, 1593 (1997).
22. A. Ashtekar, C. Beetle, and S. Fairhurst. Class. Quantum Grav. 16, L1 (1999); A. Ashtekar, A. Corichi,
    and K. Krasnov. Adv. Theor. Math. Phys. 3, 419 (2000); A. Ashtekar, C. Beetle, and S. Fairhurst. Class.

                                                                                         © 2005 NRC Canada
Booth                                                                                             1099

    Quantum Grav. 17, 253 (2000); A. Ashtekar and A. Corichi. Class. Quantum Grav. 17, 1317 (2000);
    A. Ashtekar, C. Beetle, and J. Lewandowski. Class. Quantum Grav. 19, 1195 (2002).
23. A. Ashtekar, S. Fairhurst, and B. Krishnan. Phys. Rev. D, 62, 104025 (2000).
24. A. Ashtekar, C. Beetle, and J. Lewandowski. Phys. Rev. D, 64, 044016 (2001).
25. J. Lewandowski. Class. Quantum Grav. 17, L53 (2000).
26. P.T. Chrusciel. Proc. R. Soc. London A, 436, 299 (1992).
27. S. Fairhurst and B. Krishnan. Int. J. Mod. Phys. D, 10, 691 (2001).
28. A. Ashtekar and G. Galloway. Some uniqueness results for dynamical horizons, gr-qc/0503109 (2005).
29. S.A. Hayward. Ann. Poincare Phys. Theor. 59, 399 (1993).
30. L. Andersson, M. Mars, and W. Simon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 111102 (2005).
31. J.M.M. Senovilla. JHEP, 0311, 046 (2003).
32. R. Geroch and J.B. Hartle. J. Math. Phys. 23, 680 (1982).
33. D. Bernstein, D. Hobill, E. Seidel, and L. Smarr. Phys. Rev. D, 50, 3760 (1994); P. Anninos,
    D. Bernstein, S.R. Brandt, D. Hobill, E. Seidel, and L. Smarr. Phys. Rev. D, 50, 3801 (1994);
    E. Schnetter, F. Hermann, and D. Poulney. Phys. Rev. D, 71, 044033 (2005).
34. I. Ben-Dov. Phys. Rev. D, 70 124031 (2004).
35. I. Booth, L. Brits, J. Gonzalez, and C.-Van Den Broeck. Marginally trapped tubes and dynamical
    horizons, gr-qc/0506119. 2005.
36. S.M.C.V. Gonçalves. Phys. Rev. D, 63, 124017 (2001).
37. D. Eardley. Phys. Rev. D, 57, 2299 (1998).
38. R.M. Wald and V. Iyer. Phys. Rev. D, 44, 3719 (1991).
39. R. Newman. Class. Quantum Grav. 4, 277 (1987).
40. S. Aminneborg, I. Bengtsson, S. Holst, and P. Peldan. Class. Quantum Grav. 13, 2707 (1996).
41. S.A. Hayward. Phys. Rev. D, 70, 104027 (2004); Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 251101 (2004).
42. S.A. Hayward. Gravitational radiation from dynamical black holes, gr-qc/0505080. 2005.
43. J.D. Brown and J.W. York. Phys. Rev. D, 41, 1407 (1993).
44. E. Gourgoulhon. A generalized Damour–Navier–Stokes equation applied to trapping horizons,
    gr-qc/0508003. 2005.
45. I. Booth and S. Fairhurst. Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 011102 (2004).
46. S.A. Hayward. Phys. Rev. D, 61, 101503 (2000); H. Shinkai and S. Hayward. Phys. Rev. D, 64, 044002
    (2001).
47. E. Poisson. Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 161103 (2005); Phys. Rev. D, 70, 08404 (2004).
48. S. Hawking. In Black holes. Edited by B. deWitt and C. deWitt. Gordon and Breach, New York. 1973.
49. I. Booth and S. Fairhurst. Horizon energy and angular momentum from a Hamiltonian perspective,
    gr-qc/0505049. 2005.
50. I. Booth and S. Fairhurst. Class. Quantum Grav. 20, 4507 (2003).
51. K.S. Thorne, R.H. Price, and D.A. Macdonald. Black holes: the membrane paradigm. Yale University
    Press, New Haven, Conn. 1986.
52. A. Ashtekar, J. Engle, T. Pawlowski, and C. Van Den Broeck. Class. Quantum Grav. 21, 2549 (2004);
    C. Van Den Broeck. Ph.D. thesis, The Pennsylvania State University, Pennsylvania, USA. 2005.




                                                                                     © 2005 NRC Canada
