                                                              WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES:
                                                             FROM ZERMELO’S NAVIGATION TO
                                                              THE CAUSALITY OF SPACETIMES




arXiv:1407.5494v6 [math.DG] 2 Dec 2021
                                               ERASMO CAPONIO, MIGUEL ANGEL JAVALOYES, AND MIGUEL SÁNCHEZ


                                                  Abstract. The notion of wind Finslerian structure Σ is developed; this is a
                                                  generalization of Finsler metrics (and Kropina ones) where the indicatrices at
                                                  the tangent spaces may not contain the zero vector. In the particular case
                                                  that these indicatrices are ellipsoids, called here wind Riemannian structures,
                                                  they admit a double interpretation which provides: (a) a model for classical
                                                  Zermelo’s navigation problem even when the trajectories of the moving objects
                                                  (planes, ships) are influenced by strong winds or streams, and (b) a natural
                                                  description of the causal structure of relativistic spacetimes endowed with a
                                                  non-vanishing Killing vector field K (SSTK splittings), in terms of Finslerian
                                                  elements. These elements can be regarded as conformally invariant Killing
                                                  initial data on a partial Cauchy hypersurface. The links between both inter-
                                                  pretations as well as the possibility to improve the results on one of them using
                                                  the other viewpoint are stressed.
                                                      The wind Finslerian structure Σ is described in terms of two (conic, pseudo)
                                                  Finsler metrics, F and Fl , the former with a convex indicatrix and the latter
                                                  with a concave one. Notions such as balls and geodesics are extended to Σ.
                                                  Among the applications, we obtain the solution of Zermelo’s navigation with
                                                  arbitrary time-independent wind, metric-type properties for Σ (distance-type
                                                  arrival function, completeness, existence of minimizing, maximizing or closed
                                                  geodesics), as well as description of spacetime elements (Cauchy developments,
                                                  black hole horizons) in terms of Finslerian elements in Killing initial data. A
                                                  general Fermat’s principle of independent interest for arbitrary spacetimes, as
                                                  well as its applications to SSTK spacetimes and Zermelo’s navigation, are also
                                                  provided.




                                             2010 Mathematics Subject Classification. 53B40, 53C50, 53C60, 53C22.
                                             Key words and phrases. Finsler spaces and generalizations, Killing vector field, Zermelo navi-
                                         gation problem, Kropina metric, spacetime.
                                             EC is a member of and has been partially supported during this research by the “Gruppo
                                         Nazionale per l’Analisi Matematica, la Probabilità e le loro Applicazioni” (GNAMPA) of the “Is-
                                         tituto Nazionale di Alta Matematica (INdAM)”. Partial supports by PRIN 2017JPCAPN Qual-
                                         itative and quantitative aspects of nonlinear PDEs and by the project MTM2013-47828-C2-1-P
                                         (Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness and European Regional Development Fund,
                                         ERDF) are acknowledged.
                                             MAJ was partially supported by MICINN/FEDER project PGC2018-097046-B-I00 funded by
                                         MCIN/ AEI /10.13039/501100011033/ FEDER “Una manera de hacer Europa” and Fundación
                                         Séneca project with reference 19901/GERM/15. This work is a result of the activity developed
                                         within the framework of the Programme in Support of Excellence Groups of the Región de Murcia,
                                         Spain, by Fundación Séneca, Science and Technology Agency of the Región de Murcia.
                                             MS has been partially supported by the project MTM2016-78807-C2-1-P funded by
                                         MCIN/ AEI /10.13039/501100011033/ FEDER “Una manera de hacer Europa” and by the
                                         framework of IMAG-Marı́a de Maeztu grant CEX2020-001105-M funded by MCIN/AEI/
                                         10.13039/50110001103.
                                                                                         1
2                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


                                   Contents
    1. Introduction                                                             3
    2. Wind Finslerian structures                                              10
    2.1. Wind Minkowskian structures on vector spaces                          10
    2.2. Notions on manifolds and characterizations                            13
    2.3. Wind lengths and balls                                                16
    2.4. Geodesics                                                             24
    2.5. Link with geodesics of conic pseudo-Finsler metrics                   28
    2.6. Wind Riemannian structures                                            30
    3. Fermat structures for SSTK splittings                                   35
    3.1. Spacetimes with a space-transverse Killing field                      35
    3.2. Associated wind Riemannian structure                                  37
    3.3. Lightlike vectors and link with Zermelo metrics                       39
    3.4. Projection on ∂t⊥ and interpretation of Al , Ãl                      43
    3.5. Fundamental tensors for F, Fl                                         46
    4. The case of causal K: Randers-Kropina metrics                           46
    4.1. Characterization of the chronological relation                        47
    4.2. Continuity of the Finslerian separation for Randers-Kropina spaces    48
    4.3. Ladder of causality and properties for Randers-Kropina separation     50
    5. The case of arbitrary K: general wind Riemannian structures             52
    5.1. Causal futures and lightlike geodesics                                52
    5.2. Characterization of the causal ladder                                 55
    6. Applications to wind Riemannian structures and navigation               58
    6.1. Characterization of geodesics and Hopf-Rinow properties               59
    6.2. The role of the different splittings of an SSTK spacetime.            62
    6.3. Precedence relation and solution to Zermelo problem                   65
    6.4. Further results on existence of geodesics                             69
    7. Fermat’s principle and generalized Zermelo navigation problem.          75
    7.1. A new problem: Fermat’s principle for arbitrary arrival curves        75
    7.2. A general Fermat’s Principle                                          76
    7.3. Fermat’s principle for SSTK spacetimes                                81
    8. Further applications                                                    87
    8.1. Cauchy developments                                                   87
    8.2. Differentiability of the Randers-Kropina separation                   89
    8.3. K-horizons                                                            92
    9. Conclusions and further developments                                    94
    9.1. Randers and wind Riemannian manifolds of constant flag curvature      96
    9.2. Sharp criteria on completeness and Cauchy hypersurfaces               97
    9.3. From wind Finslerian to cones and Lorentz-Finsler metrics             98
    9.4. Generalizations of Zermelo’s and applications to wave propagation     99
    Appendix: List of some symbols and conventions                            101
    References                                                                103
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                           3


                                 1. Introduction
    Among the classic and recent applications of Finsler metrics, Randers ones can
be linked to two quite different problems. The first one is Zermelo navigation
problem that was considered for the first time in [90]. It consists in determining
the trajectories which minimize the flight time of an airship (or of any other object
capable of a certain maximum speed and moving in a wind or a current). Zermelo
determined the differential equations of the optimal trajectories in dimensions 2
and 3 (the so-called navigation equations). The problem was then considered by
Levi-Civita, Von Mises, Caratheodory, Manià [58, 86, 27, 62] becoming a classical
problem in optimal control theory. Randers metrics turned then out to appear
naturally in the problem of navigation under a mild time-independent wind [82, 4].
    The second one is the description of the conformal geometry of spacetimes
(R × M, g) endowed with a timelike Killing vector field K (the so-called standard
stationary spacetimes). This is an important class of spacetimes: for example, the
region outside the ergosphere in Kerr’s solution to Einstein’s equations is of this
type and, more generally, the region outside the horizon of any black hole should
be so, at sufficiently late times (see [59, §14.4]). Also in this case, Randers metrics
arise naturally on M , encoding the causality of the spacetime [23].
    In both cases, the interpretation of a Randers metric as a Riemannian one
(M, gR ) “with a displaced unit ball” becomes apparent: the displacement is caused
by the vector field W which represents the wind in the case of Zermelo’s prob-
lem, and which is constructed in a conformally invariant way from the lapse Λ =
−g(K, K) and the shift ω = g(K, ·)|M in the case of spacetimes. It is remarkable
that Randers metrics provide a natural way to go from the navigation problem to
spacetimes, and vice versa.
    In both problems, however, there is a neat restriction: the wind must be mild
(gR (W, W ) < 1) and, accordingly, the lapse of the spacetime must be positive (Λ >
0); otherwise, the displaced unit ball would not contain the zero vector, making
to collapse the classical Finslerian description. Nevertheless, both problems are
natural without such restrictions and, in fact, they become even more geometrically
interesting then. Under a strong wind or current, the moving object (a Zeppelin
or a plane in the air, a ship in the ocean, or even sound rays in the presence of a
wind [43, 44]) may face both, regions which cannot be reached and others that can
be reached but must be abandoned by, say, the compelling wind. Analogously, the
change in the sign of the lapse Λ means that the causal character of the Killing
vector field K changes from timelike to spacelike and, so, one might find a Killing
horizon, which is an especially interesting type of relativistic hypersurface [30, 65].
The correspondence between navigation and spacetimes becomes now even more
appealing: although the description of the movement of the navigating object is
non-relativistic, the set of points that can be reached at each instant of time becomes
naturally described by the causal future of an event in the spacetime, and the latter
may exhibit some of the known subtle possibilities in relativistic fauna: horizons,
no-escape regions (black holes) and so on.
    Our aim here is to show that both Zermelo navigation in the air or the sea,
represented by a Riemannian manifold (M, gR ), with time-independent wind W ,
and the geometry of a spacetime (R × M, g), with a non-vanishing Killing vector
field K, can still be described by a generalized Finsler structure (M, Σ), that we
call wind Riemannian. Roughly, Σ is the hypersurface of the tangent bundle T M
4                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


which contains the maximum velocities of the moving object in all the points and
all directions, i.e., each Σp ⊂ Tp M is obtained by adding the wind Wp to the gR -
unit sphere at p, the latter representing the maximum possible velocities developed
by the engine of the moving object at p with respect to the air or sea.
   By using this structure, we can interpret Zermelo navigation as a problem about
geodesics whatever the strength of the wind is and we give sufficient conditions for
the existence of a solution minimizing or maximizing travel time (Theorem 6.15).
These are based on an assumption, called w-convexity which is satisfied if the wind
Riemannian structure Σ is geodesically complete. Clearly, this might hold also when
M is not compact, a case in that the so-called common compact support hypoth-
esis in Filippov’s theorem, applied to the time-optimal control problem describing
Zermelo navigation, does not hold (see [2, Th. 10.1] and [80, p. 52]). For exam-
ple, our techniques can also be used to prove existence of a solution in a (possibly
unbounded) open subset of a manifold M , provided that the wind is mild in its
boundary and the boundary is convex (Theorem 6.21 and Remark 6.22).
   As mentioned above, wind Riemannian structures allow us to describe also the
causal structure of a spacetime (R × M, g) endowed with a non-vanishing Killing
vector field ∂t which is everywhere transverse to the spacelike hypersurfaces St =
{t} × M . We name this type of spacetimes standard with a space-transverse Killing
vector field, abbreviated in SSTK splitting. They are endowed with a t-independent
metric
                              g = −Λdt2 + 2ωdt + g0
(see Definition 3.2 and Proposition 3.3 for accurate details), so the Killing vec-
tor field is K = ∂t . Even though SSTK splittings are commonly used in General
Relativity (see for example [65] and references therein), we do not know any pre-
vious systematic study of their causal structure, so, this is carried out here with
full depth. Of course, SSTK splittings include standard stationary spacetimes (i.e.
the case in that K is timelike or, equivalently, Λ = −g(∂t , ∂t ) is positive) and
also asymptotically flat spacetimes admitting a Killing vector field which is only
asymptotically timelike (which, sometimes in the literature on Mathematical Rela-
tivity, are also called stationary spacetimes, see for example [59, Definition 12.2]).
The spacetime viewpoint will be crucial to solve technical problems about wind
Riemannian structures.
   The point at which Zermelo navigation and the causal geometry of an SSTK
splitting are more closely related is Fermat’s principle. We prove here a Fermat’s
principle in a very general setting which is then refined when the ambient space-
time is an SSTK splitting. Classical Fermat’s principle, as established by Kovner
[57] and Perlick [74], characterizes lightlike pregeodesics as the critical points of
the arrival functional for smooth lightlike curves joining a prescribed point z0 and
a timelike curve α. However, the case when α is not timelike becomes also very
interesting for different purposes. First, of course, this completes the mathematical
development of the problem. In particular, the proof of the result here, Theo-
rem 7.4 (plus further extensions there), refines all previous approaches. However,
this result and its strengthening to SSTK spacetimes (Theorem 7.8, Corollary 7.11),
admit interpretations for Zermelo’s navigation, as well as for spacetimes (arrival at
a Killing horizon) and even for the classical Riemannian viewpoint (Remark 7.7).
Specifically, about Zermelo’s navigation, the case when the arrival curve α is not
timelike corresponds to a target point which lies in a zone of critical or strong
                 WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                          5


wind (gR (W, W ) ≥ 1). Thus, Fermat’s principle can be interpreted as a variational
principle for a generalized Zermelo’s navigation problem, in the sense that naviga-
tion paths are the critical (rather than only local minimum) points of the time of
navigation.
   About the technical framework of variational calculus, we would like to empha-
size that the travel time minimizing paths between two given points x0 , y0 ∈ M are
the curves σ connecting x0 to y0 which minimize the functional
                                Z
                                            gR (σ̇, σ̇)
                           σ 7→                    p             ,
                                  σ gR (σ̇, W ) +      h(σ̇, σ̇)
where
                  h(v, v) := (1 − gR (W, W ))gR (v, v) + gR (v, W )2             (1)
is a signature changing tensor on M which is Riemannian on the region of mild
wind, Lorentzian on the region of strong wind, while in the region of critical wind
(i.e., at the points p ∈ M where gR (Wp , Wp ) = 1), it is degenerate. On the region
of critical or strong wind, this functional is defined (and positive) only for curves
whose velocities belong to a conic sub-bundle of T M (see Proposition 2.57 and
Proposition 2.58). This constraint on the admissible velocities plus the signature
changing characteristic of h make it difficult the use of direct methods. Actually,
we are able to prove the existence of a minimum by using Lorentzian results about
the existence of limit curves (see Definition 4.4, Lemma 5.7) in the SSTK splitting
that can be associated with a data set (M, gR , W ) for Zermelo navigation (Theo-
rem 3.10). What is more, focusing only on the minimizing problem (or the optimal
time control problem) is, in our opinion, somehow reductive of the rich geometrical
features of Zermelo navigation. For example, Caratheodory abnormal geodesics [27,
§282] (see Section 6.3) are interpreted here as both, lightlike pregeodesics of h (up
to a finite number of instants where the velocity vanishes) or exceptional geodesics
of the wind Riemannian structure (Definition 2.44).
    In our study, we will proceed even from a more general viewpoint. We will
move the indicatrix of any Finsler metric by using an arbitrary vector field W
and call the so-obtained hypersurface Σ a wind Finslerian structure. We provide a
thorough study of such a structure, which is then strengthened for wind Riemannian
structures thanks to the correspondence with conformal classes of SSTK splittings.
Of course, wind Finslerian structures generalize the class of all Finsler manifolds
because the zero vector is allowed to belong to or to be outside each hypersurface
Σp = Tp M ∩ Σ. Remarkably, the correspondence between SSTK splittings and
wind Riemannian structures allows us to study the latter, including some“singular”
Finslerian geometries (such as the well-known Kropina metrics, where the 0 vector
belongs to the indicatrix Σp ) in terms of the corresponding (non-singular) SSTK
splitting.
Next, we give a brief description of each section, which may serve as a guide for
the reader. In Section 2, we start by introducing wind Finslerian structures on a
manifold. These will be defined in terms of a hypersurface Σ of T M , satisfying
a transversality condition which provides a strongly convex compact hypersurface
Σp at each point p ∈ M , called wind Minkowskian structure. This structure plays
the role of indicatrix, although it might not surround the origin 0p ∈ Tp M . An
obvious example appears when the indicatrix bundle of a Finsler manifold F0 is
displaced along a vector field W and any such Σ can be constructed from some
6                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


F0 , W (clearly not univocally determined, even though a natural choice can be
done), see Proposition 2.15. The intrinsic analysis of Σ shows:
        Any wind Finslerian structure Σ can be described in terms of two
        conic pseudo-Finsler metrics F and Fl , the former F (resp. the
        latter Fl ) defined on all M (resp. in the region Ml of strong wind,
        i.e., whenever the zero vector is not enclosed by Σ) with:
           (i) domain Ap ⊂ Tp M at each p ∈ M (resp. each p ∈ Ml ) equal
        to the interior of the conic region of Tp M determined by the half
        lines from the origin to Σp , and
           (ii) indicatrix the part of Σp that is convex Σ+p (resp. concave
          −
        Σp ) with respect to the position vector —so that F becomes a conic
        Finsler metric and Fl a Lorentzian Finsler metric (Proposition 2.5,
        Figure 1).
        Moreover, Σ admits general notions of lengths and balls (Defini-
        tions 2.20, 2.26), which allows us to define geodesics (Definitions 2.35,
        2.44), recovering the usual geodesics for F and Fl (Theorem 2.53).
Remarkably, we introduce the notion of c-ball in order to define geodesics directly
for Σ. These balls are intermediate between open and closed balls. They make sense
even in the Riemannian case (Example 2.28), allowing a well motivated notion of
convexity, namely, w-convexity (Proposition 2.34, Definition 2.45).
   Especially, we focus on the case when Σ is a wind Riemannian structure (Sec-
tion 2.6). The link with Zermelo’s problem becomes apparent: F describes the
maximum velocity that the ship can reach in each direction and Fl the minimum
one. In this case, the conic pseudo-Finsler metrics F, Fl can be described naturally
in terms of the data gR and W (Proposition 2.57), and a generalization of the
Zermelo/Randers correspondence is carried out: now Randers metrics appear for
mild wind (gR (W, W ) < 1), the pair (F, Fl ) for strong wind (gR (W, W ) > 1), and
Kropina metrics for the case of critical wind (gR (W, W ) = 1). In particular, F be-
comes a Randers-Kropina metric in the region of non-strong wind (Definition 2.59,
Proposition 2.58).
In Section 3, our aim is to describe the correspondence between the wind Riemann-
ian structures and the (conformal classes) of SSTK splittings. The existence of
a unique Fermat structure, i.e., a wind Riemannian structure Σ naturally associ-
ated with the conformal class [(Λ, ω, g0 )] of an SSTK splitting, is characterized in
Theorem 3.10. Moreover, the equivalence between these conformal SSTK-classes,
and the description of a wind Riemannian structure either with Zermelo-type ele-
ments (i.e., in terms of a Randers-Kropina metric or a pair of metrics (F, Fl )) or
with its explicit Riemannian metric and wind (i.e., the pair (gR , W )) is analyzed
in detail, see the summary in Fig. 6. In Subsection 3.4 we identify and interpret
the (signature-changing) metric h in (1), which becomes Riemannian when Λ > 0,
Lorentzian of coindex 1 when Λ < 0 and degenerate otherwise. In particular, on
its causal (timelike or lightlike) vectors in T Ml , it holds
                                1
                     h(v, v) =    (1 − g0 (W, W ))2 (F − Fl )2 (v),             (2)
                                4
(see (34), Corollary 3.19). As mentioned above, the metric h will turn out essential
for describing certain solutions of the Zermelo navigation problem. We emphasize
that, even though h has a natural interpretation from the spacetime viewpoint
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                              7


(Proposition 3.18), its importance would be difficult to discover from the purely
Finslerian viewpoint (that is, from an expression such as (2)). Summing up:
        Any wind Riemannian structure (gR , W ) becomes equivalent to an
        SSTK conformal class [(g0 , ω, Λ)]. The spacetime interpretation
        allows us to reveal elements (as the metric h in (1), (2), (34)) and
        to find illuminating interpretations which will become essential for
        the analysis of Finslerian properties as well as for the solution of
        technical problems there.
We end with a subsection where the fundamental tensors of F and Fl are com-
puted explicitly and discussed —in particular, this makes it possible to check the
Finslerian character of the former and the Lorentzian Finsler one of the latter.
About Sections 4 and 5, recall first that the main theorems of this paper deal with
an exhaustive correspondence between the causal properties of an SSTK splitting
and the metric-type properties of wind Riemannian structures. These theorems will
become fundamental from both, the spacetime viewpoint (as important relativistic
properties are characterized) and the viewpoint of navigation and wind Riemannian
structures (as sharp characterizations on the existence of critical points/ geodesics
are derived by applying the spacetime machinery). For the convenience of the
reader, they are obtained gradually in Sections 4 and 5.
   In Section 4, we consider the case when the Killing field K of the SSTK spacetime
is causal or, consistently, when the Fermat structure has (pointwise) either mild or
critical wind. In this case, the Lorentzian Finsler metric Fl is not defined, and
the conic Finsler metric F becomes a Randers-Kropina one. We introduce the
F -separation dF in a way formally analogous to the (non-necessarily symmetric)
distance of a Finsler manifold. But, as the curves connecting each pair of points
must be admissible now (in the Kropina region, the velocity of the curves must be
included in the open half tangent spaces where F can be applied), one may have, for
example, dF (x, x) = +∞ for some x ∈ M . In any case, the chronological relation 
of the SSTK splitting can be characterized in terms of dF (Proposition 4.1), and this
allows us to prove that dF is still continuous outside the diagonal (Theorem 4.5).
The main result, Theorem 4.9, yields a full characterization of the possible positions
of the SSTK splitting in the so-called causal ladder of spacetimes in terms of the
properties of dF . This extends the results for stationary spacetimes in [23], and
they are applicable to relativistic spacetimes as the pp-waves (Example 4.11). A
nice straightforward consequence is a version of Hopf-Rinow Theorem for the F -
separation of any Randers-Kropina metric (Corollary 4.10).
   In Section 5 the general case when there is no restriction on K (i.e., a strong
wind is permitted) is considered. In this case, our definitions of balls and geodesics
are enough for a full description of the causal ladder of the spacetime. In fact, the
chronological and causal futures, I + (z0 ), J + (z0 ), of any SSTK-point z0 ∈ R × M
can be described in terms of the Σ-balls and c-balls in M (Proposition 5.1). More-
over, the horismotically related points (those in J + (z0 ) \ I + (z0 )) are characterized
by the existence of extremizing geodesics (Corollary 5.3). This leads to a complete
description of the geodesics of an SSTK splitting in terms of the geodesics of its
Fermat structure (Theorem 5.5, Corollary 5.6, see also Fig. 10). In order to char-
acterize the closedness of J + (z0 ) (Proposition 5.8), as well as to carry out some
other technical steps, we require a result of independent interest about limit curves
8                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


(Lemma 5.7). This machinery allows us to prove our structural Theorem 5.9 which,
roughly, means:
        Any SSTK splitting (R × M, g) is stably causal and it will have
        further causality properties when some appropriate properties of
        the balls or geodesics of the corresponding Fermat structure (M, Σ)
        hold. In particular, (R × M, g) is causally continuous iff a natu-
        ral property of symmetry holds for the closed balls of (M, Σ), it is
        causally simple iff (M, Σ) is w-convex and it is globally hyperbolic iff
        the intersections between the forward and backward closed Σ-balls
        are compact. Moreover, the fact that the slices St = {t} × M are
        Cauchy hypersurfaces is equivalent to the (forward and backward)
        geodesic completeness of (M, Σ).
Section 6 is devoted to the applications of the SSTK viewpoint to the geometry of
wind Riemannian structures. This follows the spirit of [23, 36] in the stationary
case, where the spacetime viewpoint allows one to find properties for Randers met-
rics (see [23, Section 5] or, for example, the section 5.3.4 in [36]). In the case of
wind Riemannian structures this viewpoint becomes crucial due to the appearance
of certain singularities in the Finslerian elements. Indeed, it offers neat interpreta-
tions which permit to solve technical problems and serves as a guide for different
developments. Subsection 6.1 develops direct consequences of the previous results:
(1) a full characterization of the Σ-geodesics as either (a) geodesics for F or Fl , or
(b) lightlike pregeodesics of −h in the region of strong wind, up to isolated points of
vanishing velocity (Theorem 6.3; the last possibility refines the result for any wind
Finslerian structure in Theorem 2.53) and (2) a characterization of completeness
and w-convexity in the spirit of Hopf-Rinow theorem (Proposition 6.6). However,
in Subsection 6.2 a subtler application on (M, Σ) is developed. Indeed, the same
spacetime may split as an SSTK in two different ways (Lemma 6.7), yielding two
different Fermat structures (Proposition 6.10). These structures share some prop-
erties intrinsic to the SSTK spacetime and their consequences for the wind Rie-
mannian structures associated with each splitting are analyzed. In Subsection 6.3
we introduce a relation of weak precedence  (resp. precedence ≺) between pairs
of points in (M, Σ) defined by the existence of a connecting wind curve (resp. an
F -wind curve), namely, a curve with velocity included in the region (resp. the
interior of the region) allowed by Σ. Such a relation can be characterized as the
projection of the causal (resp. chronological) relation on the corresponding SSTK
(Proposition 6.13). This allows us to prove results on existence of minimizing and
maximizing connecting geodesics (Theorems 6.15 and 6.21, Theorem 6.27) and of
closed geodesics for (M, Σ) (Theorem 6.28). In particular, Theorems 6.15, 6.27 and
Corollaries 6.17, 6.18 provide the full solution to Zermelo navigation problem:
        For any wind Riemannian structure, the solutions of Zermelo prob-
        lem are pregeodesics of Σ. The metric −h in (34) defines a nat-
        ural relation of weak precedence  (resp. precedence ≺) which de-
        termines if a point x0 can be connected with a second one y0 by
        means of a wind (resp. F -wind) curve; when the wind is strong,
        i.e. M = Ml , −h becomes Lorentzian on all M and the relation
        of weak precedence (resp. precedence) coincides with the natural
        causal (resp. chronological) of −h. Then:
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                  9


            (a) if x0  y0 , x0 6= y0 , and the c-balls are closed (i.e. (M, Σ)
         is w-convex) then there exists a geodesic of (M, Σ) of minimum F -
         length from x0 to y0 (which is also a lightlike pregeodesic of −h
         when x0 6≺ y0 );
            (b) if x0  y0 , x0 6= y0 , the wind is strong and −h is globally
         hyperbolic on all M then there exists a geodesic of (M, Σ) of max-
         imum Fl -length from x0 to y0 (which is also a lightlike pregeodesic
         of −h if x0 6≺ y0 ).
The possibility of the existence of maximal solutions as well as of solutions which
are limits of minimal and maximal ones was pointed out by Caratheodory in [27]
(see the discussion at part (2) below Corollary 6.18). We stress that our result
interprets geometrically all of them as geodesics. In particular, the limits of minimal
and maximal ones correspond (up to isolated points) to the lightlike pregeodesics
of −h. We would like to emphasize that the accuracy of most of our results for
wind Riemannian structures relies on their correspondence to SSTK splittings (see,
e.g. Proposition 6.2). Nevertheless, some of these results might be extendible to
general wind Finslerian ones.1
In Section 7, we discuss Fermat’s principle, which constitutes a topic of interest in its
own right. After an introductory motivation in Subsection 7.1, in Subsection 7.2
we prove our Generalized Fermat’s principle valid for causally arbitrary arrival
curves (Theorem 7.4). Moreover, we also develop an extension to the case when
the trial curves are timelike with a prescribed proper time (instead of lightlike with
necessarily 0 proper time, Corollary 7.5) as well as a first application to two purely
Riemannian variational problems (Corollary 7.6). In Subsection 7.3 Generalized
Fermat’s principle is refined for Zermelo trajectories in SSTK spacetimes, providing
a variational interpretation of the geodesics of any wind Riemannian structure
(Theorem 7.8, Corollary 7.11).
In Section 8, we go further in the description of causal elements of SSTK splittings.
Indeed, in Subsection 8.1, Cauchy developments and horizons of subsets included
in a slice St are described accurately in terms of the Fermat structure (Proposi-
tion 8.1). As a nice consequence, in Subsection 8.2 the results on differentiability of
horizons for spacetimes can be now applied to obtain results on smoothability of the
Randers-Kropina separation dF to a subset (Proposition 8.7), so extending results
in [31] for the Riemannian case and in [23, §5.4] for the Randers one. In the last
part (Subsection 8.3), we also introduce and develop the notion of K-horizon for
any wind Finslerian structure. In particular, such horizons allow us to describe the
regions where the ship in Zermelo’s navigation cannot enter (or from where it can-
not escape). Accordingly, from the spacetime viewpoint, it provides a description
of black hole regions from the Killing initial data (KID) on a Riemannian manifold
(M, g0 ) for any SSTK splitting (see [28, 10, 61, 65]). Notice that these data ap-
pear naturally in the initial value problem for the Einstein equation, and include
our Λ and ω (usually denoted N and Y in Physics literature, the latter regarded
eventually as a vector field). Given the initial data, the SSTK splitting is called
    1Indeed, in the case of the correspondence of Randers metrics with stationary spacetimes
already developed in [23], some of the properties obtained by using the spacetime viewpoint could
be extended to any Finslerian manifold (see for example [68] or compare [23, Th. 4,10] with [83,
Theorem A]). Thus, the results for the wind Riemannian case might serve as a guide for a further
development of wind Finslerian structures as explained in Section 9.
10                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


its (infinite) Killing development [65, Definition 2]. When the initial data are well
posed (namely, they satisfy conditions of compatibility with matter in the sense of
[28, Definition 2]), the Cauchy development of S will include the unique maximal
globally hyperbolic spacetime obtained as a solution of the Einstein equation. Our
results on Cauchy developments make it possible to determine these regions, as well
as possible black hole horizons, in terms of the Fermat structure.
Finally, in Section 9 some conclusions are summarized. Moreover, we survey a few
recent works, related to the topics of the present paper, trying to provide to the
interested reader a brief guide about developments and further investigations.
    Due to the big number of notions here introduced, an appendix containing a
list of symbols and definitions used throughout the paper is given for the reader’s
convenience.

                        2. Wind Finslerian structures
2.1. Wind Minkowskian structures on vector spaces. Let us begin by recall-
ing the classical notion of Minkowski norm.
Definition 2.1. Let V be a real vector space of finite dimension m ≥ 1. We say
that a continuous non-negative function F : V → [0, +∞) is a Minkowski norm if
  (i) it is positive and smooth away from the zero vector,
 (ii) it is positively homogeneous, namely, F (λv) = λF (v) for every λ > 0 and
      v ∈V,
(iii) for any v ∈ V \ {0}, its fundamental tensor gv , defined as
                                    1 ∂2
                      gv (u, w) =          F (v + tu + sw)2 |t=s=0               (3)
                                    2 ∂s∂t
     for any u, w ∈ V , is positive definite.
    The indicatrix of F is defined as the subset ΣF = {v ∈ V : F (v) = 1}. Observe
that ΣF is a strongly convex smooth hypersurface embedded in V , in the sense that
its second fundamental form II with respect to one (and then all) transversal vector
field is definite —in the remainder, we choose the orientation of the transverse so
that II will be positive definite, as usual. Notice that, in general, any (connected)
compact, strongly convex hypersurface Σ embedded in V must be a topological
sphere (the Gauss map with respect to any auxiliary scalar product would yield
a diffeomorphism) and both, Σ and the bounded region B determined by Σ, are
strictly convex in the usual sense (i.e. Σ touches every hyperplane tangent to it
only at the tangency point and lies in one of the two half-spaces determined by the
hyperplane, and B satisfies that the segment between any two points in B̄ = B ∪ Σ
is contained in B, except at most its endpoints). When 0 ∈ B, a Minkowski norm
is uniquely determined having Σ as indicatrix just by putting F (v) = 1/λ(v) for
all v ∈ V \ {0}, where λ(v) ∈ R is the unique positive number such that λ(v)v ∈ Σ
(see for example [51, Prop. 2.3]).
    If the indicatrix Σ0 of a given Minkowski norm is translated, one obtains an-
other strongly convex smooth hypersurface Σ that determines a new Minkowski
norm whenever 0 still belongs to the new bounded region B. As explained in
the Introduction, this process of generating Minkowski norms is used pointwise in
Zermelo’s navigation problem and one obtains (see Fig. 1):
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                11


Proposition 2.2. Let Σ0 be the indicatrix of a Minkowski norm. The translated
indicatrix Σ = Σ0 + W defines a Minkowski norm if and only if F0 (−W ) < 1.
   This is a restriction of “mild wind” in Zermelo’s problem; so, let us consider
now the case in that F0 (−W ) ≥ 1. In this case, the zero vector is not contained
in the open bounded region B delimited by the translated indicatrix Σ and, as
a consequence, Σ does not define a classical Finsler metric. Indeed, not all the
rays departing from the zero vector must intersect Σ and, among the intersecting
ones, those intersecting transversely will cross Σ twice, and those intersecting non-
transversely will intersect only once, see Fig. 1. The above discussion motivates the




                        Figure 1. Wind Minkowskian structures

following definition.
Definition 2.3. A wind Minkowskian structure on a real vector space V of di-
mension m ≥ 2 (resp. m = 1) is a compact, connected, strongly convex, smooth
hypersurface Σ embedded in V (resp. a set of two points Σ = {λ− v0 , λ+ v0 },
λ− < λ+ , for some v0 ∈ V \ {0}). The bounded open domain B (resp. the open
segment {tλ− v0 + (1 − t)λ+ v0 : t ∈ (0, 1)}) enclosed by Σ will be called the unit
ball of the wind Minkowskian structure.
   As an abuse of language, Σ may also be said the unit sphere or the indicatrix of
the wind Minkowskian structure. In order to study wind Minkowskian structures,
it is convenient to consider the following generalization of Minkowski norms (see
[51] for a detailed study).
Definition 2.4. Let A ⊂ V \ {0} be an open conic subset, in the sense that if
v ∈ A, then λv ∈ A for every λ > 0.2 We say that a function F : A → [0, +∞) is
a conic pseudo-Minkowski norm if it satisfies (i) and (ii) in Definition 2.1 (see [51,
Definition 2.4]). Moreover, if the fundamental tensor gv defined in (3) is positive
definite for any v ∈ A, then F is said a conic Minkowski norm while if it has coindex
1 then F is said a Lorentzian norm.
   2Notice that, if an open conic subset A contains the zero vector then A = V . As we will be
especially interested in the case A 6= V , in the remainder the 0 vector will always be removed
from A for convenience. For comparison with the results in [51], notice that A ∪ {0} will always
be convex in the following sections, even though one does not need to assume this a priori.
12                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   Of course, any conic pseudo-Minkowski norm can be extended continuously to
0 whenever 0 does not lie in the closure in V of the indicatrix and this is natural
in the case A = V \ {0}; in particular, Minkowski norms can be seen as conic
pseudo-Minkowski norms.
   According to these definitions, there are three different possibilities for a wind
Minkowskian structure.

Proposition 2.5. Let Σ be a wind Minkowskian structure in V and B its unit ball.
  (i) If 0 ∈ B, then Σ is the indicatrix of a Minkowski norm.
 (ii) If 0 ∈ Σ, then Σ is the indicatrix of a conic Minkowski norm with domain A
      equal to an (open) half vector space.
(iii) If 0 ∈
           / B̄, then define A ⊂ V \{0} as the interior of the set which includes all
      the rays starting at 0 and crossing Σ; then A is a (convex) conic open set and,
      when m ≥ 2, two conic pseudo-Minkowski norms F, Fl with domain A can be
      characterized as follows:
       (a) each one of their indicatrices is a connected part of A ∩ Σ, and
       (b) F is a conic Minkowski norm and Fl , a Lorentzian norm.
      Moreover, F < Fl on all A, both pseudo-Minkowski norms can be extended
      continuously to the closure AE of A in V \ {0} and both extensions coincide
      on the boundary of AE .
We will say that Σ in each one of the previous cases is, respectively, a Minkowski
norm, a Kropina type norm or a strong (or proper) wind Minkowskian structure.

Proof. Parts (i) and (ii) are an easy consequence of [51, Theorem 2.14]. For part
(iii), if a ray from zero meets Σ transversely, it will cut Σ in two points whereas if
it is tangent to Σ there will be a unique cut point. Then we can divide Σ in three
disjoint regions Σ = Σ− ∪ Σ0 ∪ Σ+ , where Σ− and Σ+ are the sets of the points
where the rays departing from 0 cut Σ transversely, first in Σ− and then in Σ+ , and
Σ0 is the set of points where the rays from zero are tangent to Σ (see Fig. 1). The
rays cutting Σ− ∪ Σ+ generate the open subset A ⊂ V ; recall that the compactness
and strong convexity of Σ imply both, the arc-connectedness of Σ− and Σ+ , and
the convexity of A, ensuring (a). Moreover, Σ− defines a Lorentzian norm Fl , since
the restriction of its fundamental tensor gv to the tangent hypersurface to Σ− is
negative definite and gv -orthogonal to v [51, Prop. 2.2] (recall that this restriction
coincides, up to a negative constant, with the second fundamental form of Σ− with
respect to the opposite to the position vector, [51, Eq. (2.5)]). Analogously, Σ+
defines a conic norm F (thus completing (b)) and, by the choice of Σ+ , one has
F < Fl . Finally, observe that the points of Σ0 lie necessarily in the boundary of AE
since the rays from zero are tangent to Σ (which is strictly convex, in particular);
moreover, Σ0 lies in the boundary of both Σ+ and Σ− , which ensures the properties
of the extension.                                                                     

Remark 2.6. Observe that, in general, a converse of Proposition 2.5 (namely,
whether a wind Minkowski norm is determined by a conic Minkowski norm F and
a Lorentzian norm Fl defined both in an open conic subset A ⊂ V , such that F and
Fl can be continuously extended to AE and the extensions coincide) would require
further hypotheses in order to ensure that the closures in AE of the indicatrices of
F and Fl glue smoothly at their intersection with the boundary of AE .
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                 13


Convention 2.7. As a limit case m = 1 of Proposition 2.5 and, thus, Σ =
{λ− v0 , λ+ v0 }, one has naturally a Minkowski norm or a Kropina norm (the lat-
ter identifiable to a norm with domain only a half line) when 0 ∈ B or 0 ∈ Σ,
resp. When 0 6∈ B̄, choose v0 ∈ B and assume (0 <)λ− (< 1) < λ+ . Then, define
Σ+ = {λ+ v0 } (resp. Σ− = {λ− v0 }), as the indicatrix of a conic Minkowski norm,
which will also be regarded as Lorentzian norm in the case of Σ− (Σ+ , Σ− are
clearly independent of the chosen vector v0 ).
2.2. Notions on manifolds and characterizations. Let M be a smooth m-
dimensional manifold3, T M its tangent bundle and π : T M → M the natural
projection. Let us recall that a Finsler metric in M is a continuous function F :
T M → [0, +∞) smooth away from the zero section and such that Fp = F |Tp M is
a Minkowski norm for every p ∈ M . Analogously, a conic Finsler metric, conic
pseudo-Finsler metric or a Lorentzian Finsler metric is a smooth function F : A →
[0, +∞), where A is a conic open subset of T M \ 0 (i.e., each A ∩ Tp M is a conic
subset) such that Fp = F |A∩Tp M is, respectively, a conic Minkowski norm, a conic
pseudo-Minkowski norm or a Lorentzian norm.
Definition 2.8. A smooth (embedded) hypersurface Σ ⊂ T M is a wind Finslerian
structure on the manifold M if, for every p ∈ M : (a) Σp := Σ ∩ Tp M defines a
wind Minkowskian structure in Tp M , and (b) for each v ∈ Σp , Σ is transversal to
the vertical space V(v) ≡ Tv (Tp M ) in T M . In this case, the pair (M, Σ) is a wind
Finslerian manifold. Moreover, we will denote by Bp the unit ball of each Σp ; while
the (open) domain A of the wind Finslerian structure will be the union of the sets
Ap ⊂ Tp M, p ∈ M , where Ap is defined as Ap = Tp M \ {0} if 0 ∈ Bp and by parts
(ii) and (iii) of Proposition 2.5 otherwise.
Remark 2.9. For a standard Finsler structure F : T M → [0, +∞), the indicatrix
ΣF = {v ∈ T M : F (v) = 1} is a wind Finslerian structure. In fact, (a) follows
trivially, and (b) holds because, otherwise, being F smooth on T M \ 0, V(v) would
lie in the kernel of dFv , in contradiction with the homogeneity of F in the direction
v. Notice that this property of transversality (b) also holds for the indicatrix of
any conic Finsler or Lorentzian Finsler metric defined on A ⊂ T M (while (a) does
not).
    R.L. Bryant [15] defined a generalization of Finsler metrics also as a hypersurface.
The proof of Proposition 2.12 below shows that this notion is clearly related to the
notion of conic Finsler metric used here (even though, among other differences,
in his definition Σ must be radially transverse and it may be non-embedded and
non-compact).
Proposition 2.10. The wind Finslerian structure Σ is closed as a subset of T M ,
and foliated by spheres. Moreover, the union of all the unit balls Bp , p ∈ M , as
well as A, are open in T M . If M is connected and m ≥ 2 (resp. m = 1), then Σ
is connected (resp. Σ has two connected parts, each one naturally diffeomorphic to
M ).

   3Manifolds are always assumed to be Hausdorff and paracompact. However, the latter can be
deduced from the existence of a Finsler metric (as then the manifold M will admit a reversible
one, and M will be metrizable) as well as from the existence of a wind Finsler structure (as in
this case the centroid vector field is univocally defined, and M will admit a Finsler metric, see
Proposition 2.15 below).
14                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Proof. For the first sentence, recall that the property (a) of Definition 2.8 implies
that Σ is foliated by topological spheres S m−1 and each p ∈ M admits a neighbor-
hood U such that Σ ∩ π −1 (U ) is compact and homeomorphic to U × S m−1 . Indeed,
for each chart (U, φ) around some p ∈ M , one can take the natural bundle chart
φU : T U → φ(U ) × Rn and choose a vector op ∈ Tp M inside the inner domain
of Σp . We can assume by taking U smaller if necessary that (φU )−1 (x, o∗p ) is in
the inner domain of Σφ−1 (x) for all x ∈ φ(U ), where the superscript ∗ means the
associated linear coordinates on Tp M . Then the one-to-one map:

                Ψ : φ(U ) × Σp × R+ → T U \ {(φU )−1 ((φ(U ), o∗p ))},
                    (x, vp , λ) 7→ (φU )−1 (x, o∗p + λ[(vp − op )]∗ )
is a homeomorphism because of the invariance of domain theorem. Now, for each
(x, vp ) there exists a unique λ(x, vp ) ∈ R+ such that (x, vp , λ(x, vp )) ∈ Ψ−1 (Σ) and
λ(x, vp ) varies continuously with x and vp . Thus, as Σp is a topological sphere,
the required foliation of Σ ∩ T U is obtained. For the last assertion, notice that,
otherwise, any two non-empty disjoint open subsets that covered Σ would project
onto open subsets of M with a non-empty intersection W , in contradiction with the
connectedness of Σp at each p ∈ W (for m = 1, M admits a non-vanishing vector
field V , so that each two points in Σp can be written now as λ− (p)Vp , λ+ (p)Vp , with
λ− < λ+ on all M , thus p → λ− (p)Vp , λ+ (p)Vp yield the required diffeomorphisms
with M ).                                                                               

Definition 2.11. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Finslerian manifold. The region of critical
wind (resp. mild wind) is
         Mcrit = {p ∈ M : 0p ∈ Σp }       (resp. Mmild = {p ∈ M : 0p ∈ Bp }),
and the properly wind Finslerian region or region of strong wind is
                               Ml := {p ∈ M : 0p ∈
                                                 / B̄p }.
The (open) conic domain of the associated Lorentzian Finsler metric Fl is
                                  Al := π −1 (Ml ) ∩ A.
Let 0 be the 0-section of T M . The extended domain of Fl is
            AE := (Closure of Al in T Ml \ 0) ∪ {0p ∈ Tp M : p ∈ Mcrit }.
   The zero vectors 0p (with p ∈ Mcrit ) are included in AE for convenience (see
Convention 2.19). In the region of strong wind, the convention on AE is consistent
with Proposition 2.5-(iii); moreover, Al ⊂ T M \ 0, Al ⊆ A and, whenever p ∈ Ml ,
A ∩ Tp M = Al ∩ Tp M .
Proposition 2.12. Any wind Finslerian structure Σ in M determines the conic
pseudo-Finsler metrics F : A → [0, +∞) and Fl : Al → [0, +∞) in M and Ml
respectively (the latter when Ml 6= ∅) characterized by the properties:
  (i) F is a conic Finsler metric with indicatrix included in Σ ∩ A,
 (ii) Fl is a Lorentzian Finsler metric with indicatrix included in Σ ∩ Al
Moreover, F < Fl on Al , both Fl and F can be extended continuously to the bound-
ary of Al in T Ml \ 0 (i.e., AE \ 0), and both extensions coincide in this boundary.
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                            15


Proof. From Proposition 2.5, we have to prove just the smoothability of F, Fl in
A, by using both, the smoothness of Σ and its transversality. Let v ∈ Ap ∩ Σ, and
consider the ray {λv : λ > 0} (recall that v 6= 0). This ray is transversal to Σp and,
because of the property of transversality of Σ, it is transversal to Σ in T M too.
This property holds also for some open connected neighborhood U Σ of v in A ∩ Σ,
        Σ            Σ
where Uπ(v 0 ) (:= U   ∩ Tπ(v0 ) M ) will be either strongly convex (thus defining F ) or
strongly concave (defining Fl ) towards 0π(v0 ) , for all v 0 ∈ U Σ . Moreover, the map:
                      ψ : (0, +∞) × U Σ → T M         (t, w) 7→ tw
is injective and smooth. Even more, dψ is bijective at each point (1, w), w ∈ U Σ ,
because of transversality, and it is also bijective at any (λ, w), λ > 0, because the
homothety Hλ : T M → T M maps U Σ in the hypersurface λU Σ which is also
transversal to the radial direction. Summing up, ψ is a diffeomorphism onto its
image U T M ⊂ T M , and the inverse
                            ψ −1 : U T M → (0, +∞) × U Σ
maps each v in either (F (v), v/F (v)) or in (Fl (v), v/Fl (v)), depending on the con-
                           Σ
vexity or concaveness of Uπ(v) , v ∈ U Σ , proving consistently the smoothness of F
or Fl .                                                                             
Proposition 2.13. Let Σ and W be, resp., a wind Finslerian structure and a
(smooth) vector field on M . Then, Σ + W := {v + Wπ(v) : v ∈ Σ} is a wind
Finslerian structure on M .
Proof. The translation TW : T M → T M, v 7→ v + Wπ(v) , is a bundle isomorphism
of T M ; so, it preserves the properties of smoothness and transversality of Σ. 
   In particular, the translation of the indicatrix ΣF0 of any standard Finsler metric
F0 along W is a wind Finslerian structure Σ. In this case, the associated conic
pseudo-Finsler metrics F and Fl can be determined as follows.
Proposition 2.14. Let F0 be a Finsler metric and W be a smooth vector field
on M . Then the translation of the indicatrix of F0 by W is a wind Finslerian
structure whose conic pseudo-Finsler metrics are determined as the solutions Z(v)
of the equation                             
                                    v
                             F0        − W = 1.                               (4)
                                  Z(v)
Proof. Clearly equation (4) corresponds to a translation by W of the indicatrix
of F0 (see also the definition of the Zermelo metric Z in [82]). The convexity of
the indicatrix of F0 implies that this equation will have a unique positive solution
Z(v) for any v ∈ T M \ 0 if F0 (−W ) < 1, no solution or only a positive one if
F0 (−W ) = 1, no solution or two positive ones if F0 (−W ) > 1.                    
  Conversely:
Proposition 2.15. Any wind Finslerian structure Σ can be obtained as the dis-
placement ΣF0 + W of the indicatrix ΣF0 of a Finsler metric F0 along some vector
field W . Moreover, W can be chosen such that each Wp is the centroid of Σp .
Proof. Even if this proof can be carried out by choosing a family of vector fields Wi
defined in some open subset with this property, whose existence is trivial, and then
doing a convex sum in all the manifold with the help of a partition of unity, we
16                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


will prove in fact that the vector field provided by the centroid is smooth. For this
aim, we can actually assume that Σ is the indicatrix of a standard Finsler metric
F defined on some open subset U of Rm (notice that (i) the smoothability of W is
a local property, (ii) if a vector wp belongs to the open ball Bp enclosed by Σ, this
property will hold for any vector field W extending wp in some neighborhood of
p, so that Propositions 2.13 and 2.12 can be claimed, and (iii) the translation TW
also translates the centroids). Let S m−1 be the canonical unit sphere in Rm with
volume element dΩ. So, the natural xi -coordinate of the centroid Wp is computed
as:
                 Z       Z 1/Fp (u)                  .Z         Z 1/Fp (u)
        i                               i   m−1
      x (Wp ) =                     rx (u)r     drdΩ                       rm−1 drdΩ
                  S m−1 0                                S m−1 0
                                    xi (u)
                         Z                    .Z
                   m                                       dΩ
               =                            dΩ                                       (5)
                 m + 1 S m−1 Fp (u)m+1            S m−1 F p (u)
                                                                m

and its smoothness follows from the smooth variation of the integrands with p. 
Example 2.16 (Role of transversality). The smoothness of W relies on the smooth-
ness of F in (5) and, thus, the transversality of Σ imposed in the assumption (b)
of Definition 2.8 becomes essential. Figure 2 shows a 1-dimensional counterexam-
ple if the transversality condition is not imposed. Notice also that, as the absence
of transversality would lead to non-smooth metrics, then this would lead to non-
smooth SSTK splittings in the next Section 3. The well-known exotic properties
of the chronological and causal futures and pasts of spacetimes with non-smooth
metrics (see for example [32]) would be related to exotic properties of Σ.
Definition 2.17. Let Σ be a wind Finslerian structure on M . Then,
                          Σ̃ := −Σ := {v ∈ T M : −v ∈ Σ}
is the reverse wind Finslerian structure of Σ.
   Obviously, Σ̃ is a wind Finslerian structure too and, from the definition, one gets
easily the following.
Proposition 2.18. Given a wind Finslerian structure Σ, the conic Finsler metric
F̃ and the Lorentzian Finsler one F̃l associated with the reverse wind Finslerian
structure −Σ are the (natural) reverse conic pseudo-Finsler metrics of F and Fl ,
that is, the domains of F̃ and F̃l are, respectively, Ã = −A = {v ∈ T M : −v ∈ A}
and Ãl = −Al = {v ∈ T M : −v ∈ Al } and they are defined as F̃ (v) = F (−v) for
every v ∈ Ã and F̃l (v) = Fl (−v) for every v ∈ Ãl .
2.3. Wind lengths and balls. In order to deal with curves, the following con-
ventions will be useful.
Convention 2.19. For any wind Finslerian structure Σ we extend F and Fl to
A ∪ AE as follows. First, consistently with Proposition 2.12, F and Fl are regarded
as continuously extended to the boundary of Al in T Ml \0. Fl is extended as equal to
+∞ on A in the regions of mild and critical wind i.e. on the set {v ∈ Ap : 0p ∈ B̄p }
(that is, Fl is equal to +∞ on the vectors where F has been defined and Fl has not).
Finally, we define Fl and F as equal to 1 on the set of critical wind zeroes (i.e., the
set {0p : 0p ∈ Σp }, which was included in the definition of AE , Definition 2.11).
Notice that neither this choice of Fl and F on the critical wind region nor any other
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                  17




         Figure 2. In the top figure, Σ is a smooth hypersurface of
         T M ≡ R2 consisting of two curves which intersect the vertical
         space at (p0 , v0 ) (depicted as a vertical line) non-transversely. So
         Σ satisfies the property (a) in Definition 2.8 and (as the curves
         are symmetric with respect to the zero section of T M ) it deter-
         mines continuously a scalar product in the tangent space at each
         p ∈ M ≡ R. Nevertheless, the failure of (b) implies that this prod-
         uct does not vary smoothly with respect to p and, so, Σ does not
         determine a (smooth) Riemannian metric on M . In the second fig-
         ure, changing the lower curve by a horizontal line, one obtains at
         each tangent space a wind Minkowskian structure varying continu-
         ously (but not smoothly) with the point. Moreover, the vector field
         determined by the centroids (the dashed curve) is not differentiable
         at p0 .

can ensure their continuity; however, Fl and F are continuous on A ∪ (AE \ 0). We
also use natural notation such as (Al )p = Al ∩ Tp M , (AE )p = AE ∩ Tp M .
   To understand this choice, recall first that the necessity to extend A to AE in
the critical and strong wind regions comes from the fact that all the indicatrices Σp
should be contained in AE . In the critical region, Σp \ {0p } lies in A and, so, in the
domain of F . Therefore, it is not strange to include 0p in AE so that Fl is defined
on this vector and, obviously, the choice Fl (0p ) = F (0p ) = 1 comes from the fact
that 0p lies in the indicatrix and in the boundary of AE . A further support for these
choices will come from the viewpoint of spacetimes, as the vectors in A ∪ AE are
those which can be obtained as the projection of a lightlike vector in the spacetime.
   As usual, a piecewise smooth curve γ will be defined in a compact interval
I = [a, b], and it will be smooth except in a finite number of breaks ti ∈ I,
i ∈ {1, . . . , k}, where it is continuous and its one-sided derivatives are well defined4;
its reparametrizations will be assumed also piecewise smooth and with positive
    4Even though typically, all the curves will be defined on a compact interval I, when necessary
all the following notions can be used for non-compact I. In this case, one assumes that the
restriction of γ to compact subintervals of I satisfies the stated property, and it is natural to
impose additionally that the images of the breaks {γ(ti )} do not accumulate.
18                     E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


one-sided derivatives (so that, for example a piecewise smooth geodesic with pro-
portional one-sided derivatives at each break pointing in the same direction can be
reparametrized as smooth geodesics), unless otherwise specified.
Definition 2.20. Let Σ be a wind Finslerian structure with associated pseudo-
Finsler metrics F and Fl and consider a piecewise smooth curve γ : [a, b] ⊂ R → M ,
a < b.
   (i) γ is Σ-admissible if its left and right derivatives γ̇(s− ), γ̇(s+ ) belong to A∪AE
at every s ∈ [a, b]. Analogously, γ is F -admissible if γ̇(s± ) ∈ A, for each s ∈ [a, b].
Accordingly, a vector field V on M is Σ-admissible (resp. F -admissible) if Vp ∈
A ∪ AE for each p ∈ M , (resp. Vp ∈ A for each p ∈ M ).
   (ii) A Σ-admissible curve γ is a wind curve if
                            F (γ̇(s)) ≤ 1 ≤ Fl (γ̇(s))           ∀s ∈ [a, b],                  (6)
and an F -admissible wind curve will be called just F -wind curve.
   (iii) A Σ-admissible curve γ is a regular curve if its one-sided derivatives can
vanish only at isolated points (which can be regarded as break points, even though
the curve may be smooth there), and it is a strictly regular curve if its one-sided
derivatives (and, thus, its velocity outside the breaks) cannot vanish at any point.
   (iv) The wind lengths of a Σ-admissible curve γ (not necessarily a wind curve)
are defined as
                Z b                                     Z b
                                                                              
       `F (γ) =     F (γ̇)ds ∈ (0, +∞] ,      `Fl (γ) =     Fl (γ̇)ds ∈ (0, +∞] .
                   a                                                  a

     Obviously, from (6) we get:
Proposition 2.21. If γ is a wind curve then
             `F (γ|[a0 ,b0 ] ) ≤ b0 − a0 ≤ `Fl (γ|[a0 ,b0 ] ),   for all a ≤ a0 < b0 ≤ b.      (7)
   We will use this and other natural properties (as the fact that the concatenation
of two wind curves γ1 , γ2 such that γ1 (b1 ) = γ2 (a2 ) is another wind curve) with no
further mention.
Remark 2.22. Wind curves collect the intuitive idea of Zermelo’s navigation prob-
lem, namely: the possible velocities attained by the moving object are those satis-
fying the inequalities in (6) (observe that in the region M \ Ml , the inequalities in
(6) reduce to F (γ̇(s)) ≤ 1). These velocities never include 0p if p ∈ Ml and must
include 0p if 0p ∈ B p , which happens iff p ∈ M \ Ml , even though, by convenience,
we have excluded 0p from Ap if p ∈ Mmild and included it in the extended domain
AE when p ∈ Mcrit . The reason to exclude 0p from Ap when p ∈ Mmild is just to
emphasize the different role of the zero vector in this region and in Mcrit (as well as
avoiding problems of differentiability with F ).5 In fact, in order to connect points by
means of curves included in Mmild , one can avoid to use velocities that vanish (and
this may be convenient for purposes such as reparametrizing the curve at constant
speed; such an assumption is frequent in Riemannian Geometry too). However, as
in the case of Riemannian Geometry, the vanishing of the velocity in subsets with
   5If the reader felt more comfortable, he/she could redefine A by adding {0 : p ∈ M
                                                                                p       mild } with
no harm. In the part of spacetimes, the so redefined subset A could be interpreted as the set
which contains the projections of all the (future-pointing) timelike vectors, and A ∪ AE as the set
which contains the projections of the causal vectors. However, the reader should take into account
that the fundamental tensor of a pseudo-Finsler metric is not well-defined in the zero section.
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             19


accumulation points leads to bothering problems about its reparametrizations. So,
we will consider the solutions of Zermelo’s problem as regular wind curves (allow-
ing the velocity to vanish in isolated points), and we will ensure the existence of
such solutions (see Corollary 6.18). Observe also that the continuity of F ◦ γ̇ and
Fl ◦ γ̇ has to be checked only when γ̇(s) is equal to a zero of the critical region (see
Proposition 2.30-(ii)) and, in this case, F and Fl are defined as equal to 1 there.
A further explanation of this choice is provided in Example 2.23 below, where two
paradigmatic examples of curves with Kropina’s zeroes in the derivatives are given.
Example 2.23. Let R2 be endowed with the Kropina norm F (x, y) = (x2 + y 2 )/x
defined in A = {(x, y) ∈ R2 : x > 0}. Then the curve α : [0, 1] → R2 , α(t) = (t2 , t3 ),
satisfies that α̇(0) = (0, 0) and limt→0 F (α̇(t)) = 0. Clearly, the reparametrization
of this curve as an F -unit curve is not differentiable at t = 0. In fact, this kind
of curves was excluded in the mild region. However, consider the indicatrix of F
as a curve, take the part which is Σ-admissible and reparametrize it as an F -unit
curve. In such a way, we get a curve γ : [a, b] → R2 whose derivative is zero in the
two end-points, but with F ◦ γ̇ constantly equal to 1. This second kind of curves is
the main reason for including the zero in the Kropina region in the domains of F
and Fl . Observe that if one wants to exclude the first kind of curves, it is enough
to require the continuity of F ◦ γ̇ in the definition of wind curves in every smooth
piece.
   Let x0 , x1 ∈ M and let us denote by CxΣ0 ,x1 (resp. CxA0 ,x1 , ΩA
                                                                    x0 ,x1 ) the set of the
wind curves (resp. F -wind curves, F -admissible curves) between x0 and x1 (each
curve γ defined in a possibly different interval [aγ , bγ ]).
   Following [51], we introduce the following notions.
Definition 2.24. Given a conic pseudo-Finsler metric F : A ⊂ T M → [0, +∞), the
Finslerian separation, also called F -separation, dF : M × M → [0, +∞] is defined as
dF (p, q) = inf γ∈ΩA     ` (γ) if ΩA
                   x0 ,x1 F        x0 ,x1 6= ∅ otherwise dF (p, q) = +∞. By using the
Finslerian separation two families of subsets of M can be introduced: for any x0 ∈
M and r ∈ (0, +∞), set BF+ (x0 , r) = {y ∈ M : dF (x0 , y) < r} and BF− (x0 , r) = {y ∈
M : dF (y, x0 ) < r}. Moreover, a conic pseudo-Finsler metric is said Riemannianly
lower bounded on an open p subset D of M if there exists a Riemannian metric g0 on
M such that F (v) ≥ g0 (v, v), for all v ∈ T D ∩ A.
  As F and Fl are continuously extendible to AE \ 0, we immediately get, by
homogeneity, that they are Riemannianly lower bounded on, respectively, M and
Ml . By [51, Proposition 3.13], the collections BF± (x0 , r) of a Riemannianly lower
bounded conic pseudo-Finsler F constitute a basis for the topology of D, thus we
have:
Proposition 2.25. The collections of BF± (x0 , r) (resp BF±l (x0 , r)) constitute a basis
for the topology of M (resp. Ml ).
   Some cautions, however, must be taken. For example, the Finslerian separation
of the conic Finsler metric F may be discontinuous; in fact, the conic Finsler metric
in [51, Example 3.18] exhibits this property (see also Section 4 below). We refer
to [51, Section 3.5] for a summary of the properties satisfied by the Fnslerian
separation.
   In order to work with the full geometry associated with Σ we also introduce the
following new collections of subsets of M .
20                     E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Definition 2.26. Let x0 ∈ M and r > 0. The forward (resp. backward) wind balls
of center x0 and radius r associated with the wind Finslerian structure Σ are:
      +
     BΣ (x0 , r) = {x ∈ M : ∃ γ ∈ CxΣ0 ,x , s.t. r = bγ − aγ and `F (γ) < r < `Fl (γ)},
      −                            Σ
     BΣ (x0 , r) = {x ∈ M : ∃ γ ∈ Cx,x0
                                        , s.t. r = bγ − aγ and `F (γ) < r < `Fl (γ)}.
                         ±
being the closed balls B̄Σ (x0 , r) their closures. Moreover, the (forward, backward)
c-balls are defined as:
       +
     B̂Σ (x0 , r) = {x ∈ M : ∃ γ ∈ CxΣ0 ,x , s.t. r = bγ − aγ (so, `F (γ) ≤ r ≤ `Fl (γ))},
       −                            Σ
     B̂Σ (x0 , r) = {x ∈ M : ∃ γ ∈ Cx,x0
                                         , s.t. r = bγ − aγ (so, `F (γ) ≤ r ≤ `Fl (γ))}
                                          ±
for r > 0 and, by convention for r = 0, B̂Σ (x0 , 0) = x0 .
                                                                            ±
   Recall that, consistently with our conventions, if 0x0 ∈ Σx0 then x0 ∈ B̂Σ (x0 , r)
for all r ≥ 0 (this will be interpreted naturally in the description of the causal
future of a point in an SSTK see, e.g. Proposition 5.1).
Proposition 2.27. If a wind Finslerian structure comes from a Finsler one then
          +               −
the sets BΣ (x0 , r) and BΣ (x0 , r), r > 0, coincide with the standard forward and
backward open balls centred at x0 .
Proof. Just take into account that the assumption is equivalent to 0 ∈ Bp , for all
p ∈ M and, according to Convention 2.19, Fl (v) = +∞, for all v ∈ A = T M \0. 
                     +                −
Example 2.28. B̂Σ      (x0 , r) and B̂Σ (x0 , r) do not coincide in general with the clo-
        +                −
sures B̄Σ (x0 , r) and B̄Σ (x0 , r). This may occur even when Σ comes from a Rie-
                                        +
mannian metric (in R2 \ {(1, 0)}, B̂Σ     (0, 2) is not closed); another simple example
(using a strong wind Minkowskian structure) can be seen in Fig. 3. In fact, as
we will see, the closedness of the c-balls will be related with the convexity of the
manifold.

                      2




                      1                                P
                                        remove Q

                      0
                                0



                      -1




                      -2
                           -1       0              1       2   3        4


           Figure 3. A wind Minkowskian structure Σ in R2 \ {Q}. The
                                                         +                  +
           shaded regions represent the wind balls BΣ      (0, 1/5) and BΣ    (0, 1)
                           +              +                     +          +
           which satisfy B̂Σ (0, 1/5) = B̄Σ (0, 1/5) but P ∈ B̄Σ (0, 1)\ B̂Σ (0, 1).
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             21

                                                                   ±
   The next three propositions provide a better understanding of B̂Σ (x0 , r). Before
them, we will prove a technical lemma, which stresses the importance of transver-
sality (recall Example 2.16).
Lemma 2.29. Let Σ be a wind Finslerian structure on M and p ∈ M such that
0p ∈ Σp , and let γ : (−ε, ε) → M be a smooth F -admissible curve such that
γ(0) = p. Then, reducing ε if necessary, the surface
                           Tγ = {λγ̇(s) : λ ∈ R, s ∈ (−ε, ε)}
is embedded in T M and it is transverse to Σ. Moreover, if ε is small enough, a
smooth function (−ε, ε) 3 s 7→ λ(s) ∈ R is obtained by requiring that each λ(s)γ̇(s)
be the point in Σγ(s) ∩ Tγ = {λ1 γ̇(s), λ2 γ̇(s)} with smaller |λi |, i = 1, 2.
Proof. Clearly, Tγ is embedded and it cuts Σ transversely in two points because
γ̇(s) ∈ A for every s ∈ (−ε, ε) (with ε > 0 small enough). So, Tγ fulfils the required
property of transversality and, moreover, Σ∩Tγ is composed by two connected one-
dimensional smooth submanifolds ρ1 , which contains 0p , and ρ2 . The parameter s
of γ can be chosen as a natural coordinate for ρ1 . In this coordinate, the inclusion
of ρ1 in T M is the smooth map s 7→ λ(s)γ̇(s), so that the map λ is smooth.          
Proposition 2.30. With the above notation:
  (i) Let (M, Σ), p ∈ M , 0p ∈ Σp and γ : (−ε, ε) → M , γ(0) = p, smooth and
      F -admissible, as in the previous lemma. Then, `Fl (γ|[0,ε0 ] ) = +∞ for all
      0 < ε0 ≤ ε. As a consequence, for each r0 > 0 there exists ε0 ≤ ε such that
                     +
      γ((0, ε0 ]) ⊂ BΣ (p, r) for all r ≥ r0 .
 (ii) If a smooth curve γ : [a, b] → M is Σ-admissible and strictly regular, then F ◦ γ̇
      and Fl ◦ γ̇ are continuous (the latter as a map from [a, b] to (0, +∞]).
(iii) A Σ-admissible curve γ : [a, b] → M satisfies `Fl (γ) = +∞ if Fl (γ̇(s0 )) = +∞
      at some s0 ∈ [a, b]. The converse holds when γ is strictly regular.
(iv) For any Σ-admissible curve,
                                     `F (γ) ≤ `Fl (γ)                                 (8)
     with equality iff γ̇(s) ∈ AE \ A. Moreover, for a wind curve satisfying the
     equality in (8), Fl (γ̇) = F (γ̇) ≡ 1 everywhere.
Proof. (i) Choose any sequence εk & 0 in (0, ε). Clearly, we have γ(εk ) → p and
`F (γ|[0,εk ] ) & 0; so, it is enough to prove that `Fl (γ|[0,εk ] ) = +∞ for all k. From
the definition of λ(s) in Lemma 2.29 and Fl , we have
                                        
                                          1/λ(s)   if λ(s) > 0
                           Fl (γ̇(s)) =                                                (9)
                                          +∞       if λ(s) ≤ 0
As λ(0) = 0 and λ is smooth around 0
                               Z εk
                                          ds
                                              = +∞,
                                     0   λ(s)
and all the assertions follow directly.
    (ii) Observe that F ◦ γ̇ is always continuous in this case and Fl ◦ γ̇ can be dis-
continuous in s0 ∈ [a, b], only when γ(s0 ) belongs to Mcrit . Moreover, in this case,
γ has to be F -admissible in a neighborhood of s0 because it is smooth and strictly
regular. Then applying Lemma 2.29 in order to get (9) to the reparametrization
γ̃(s) = γ(s − s0 ), we conclude.
22                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   (iii) Necessarily, γ(s0 ) must belong either to Mcrit , and the part (i) applies
(recall that, being Fl (γ̇(s0 )) = +∞, γ̇(s0 ) ∈ Aγ(s0 ) and γ must be F -admissible
and smooth in a right or a left neighborhood of s0 ), or to Mmild and Fl (γ̇) = +∞ in
some neighborhood of s0 . For the converse, notice that at least one of the smooth
pieces of γ has to be of infinite Fl -length then, necessarily, Fl (γ̇(s0 )) = +∞ for at
least one point s0 ∈ [a, b] otherwise the Fl -length of such a piece would be finite by
part (ii).
   (iv) Apply Proposition 2.12 and Convention 2.19.                                   
Remark 2.31. F -admissible curves are always strictly regular Σ-admissible ones.
For these curves, `Fl (γ) may be infinite even in the case of an F -admissible curve
contained in Ml except at one endpoint, see Proposition 2.30. The role of strict
regularity becomes apparent from the discussion in Convention 2.19 (see also Propo-
sition 2.32 below).
   Notice that wind curves depend on reparametrizations. However, the following
result suggests that this is not a relevant restriction, at least when the velocities do
not vanish; it also provides a control on the possible reparametrizations.
Proposition 2.32. Let γ be a piecewise smooth Σ-admissible curve such that, in
each interval where γ is smooth, F ◦ γ̇ is continuous and Fl ◦ γ̇ is either infinite at
some point or continuous. Then, γ admits a (piecewise smooth) reparametrization
γ̃ : [0, r0 ] → M as a wind curve and, necessarily then, `F (γ) ≤ r0 ≤ `Fl (γ).
Moreover, r0 can be chosen equal to any value of [`F (γ), `Fl (γ)] if `Fl (γ) < +∞,
and, any value of [`F (γ), +∞) otherwise. In particular, this applies for any strictly
regular Σ-admissible curve and, therefore, for any F -admissible curve.
Proof. We can assume that γ is smooth because the piecewise smooth case trivially
follows from this. Put γ̃(r) = γ(s(r)). The reparametrization s(r) as a wind curve
is characterized by
                        F (γ̇(s(r)))ṡ(r) ≤ 1 ≤ Fl (γ̇(s(r)))ṡ(r).
As F ◦ γ̇ is continuous, we can first reparametrize γ with F (γ̇) ≡ 1. Clearly, this
gives also a parametrization of γ as a wind curve. In order to prove the last part
of the proposition let us distinguish three cases:
    (a) If Fl (γ̇) < +∞ at all the points then, by assumptions, Fl ◦ γ̇ is continuous and
the family of reparametrizations, defined by ṙλ (s) = λFl (γ̇(s))+(1−λ)F (γ̇(s)), λ ∈
[0, 1], is enough to obtain all the required values of r0 .
    (b) If Fl (γ̇(s̄)) = +∞, for some s̄ ∈ [a, b], and Fl ◦ γ̇ is continuous (as a map as-
suming values in (0, +∞]) everywhere, then, by Proposition 2.30-(iii), `Fl (γ) = +∞
and the conclusion follows modifying the expression of ṙλ in case (a) by substituting
Fl (γ̇(s)) with ϕλ (Fl (γ̇(s))), λ ∈ [0, 1)], where:
                
                 t                                  if t ≤ 1/(1 − λ)
     ϕλ (t) =       φ0 (t − 1/(1 − λ)) + 1/(1 − λ) if t ∈ (1/(1 − λ), 2 + 1/(1 − λ))
                    1 + 1/(1 − λ)                    if t ≥ 2 + 1/(1 − λ)
                

being φ0 : [0, 2] → [0, 1] any curve with φ0 (t) ≤ t, t ∈ [0, 2] that connects smoothly
the graphs of t 7→ t for t ≤ 0 and of t 7→ 1 for t ≥ 2, and recalling that we have
assumed F (γ̇) = 1.
   (c) Finally, if Fl (γ̇(s̄)) = +∞, for some s̄ ∈ [a, b], then γ must be strictly regular
in a neighbourhood [a0 , b0 ] of s̄ and then, by Proposition 2.30-(ii), Fl ◦ γ̇ must be
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             23


continuous in [a0 , b0 ]. Therefore, as in case (b), we can change the parametrization
of γ only on the interval [a0 , b0 ] to get all the values r0 ∈ [`F (γ), +∞) also in this
case.
                                                                                       
Proposition 2.33. For any wind Finslerian structure Σ and r > 0:
                          +              +              +
                         BΣ (x0 , r) ⊂ B̂Σ (x0 , r) ⊂ B̄Σ (x0 , r),
                          −              −              −
                         BΣ (x0 , r) ⊂ B̂Σ (x0 , r) ⊂ B̄Σ (x0 , r).
                       +              +
Thus, the closures of BΣ (x, r) and B̂Σ (x, r) are equal.
                                                                              +
Proof. The first inclusions follow trivially from the definitions. Let x ∈ B̂Σ   (x0 , r)
and consider a wind curve γ : [a, b] → M from x0 to x such that `F (γ) ≤ r =
b − a ≤ `Fl (γ). If the two inequalities held strictly, there would be nothing to
prove. Otherwise, consider the following cases:
   (a) `F (γ) = r = `Fl (γ) (in particular, γ̇(s) ∈ AE \ A for all s and F (γ̇) ≡ 1,
recall Remark 2.31(2)). Choose any F -admissible vector field V such that F (V ) ≡ 1
defined in some neighborhood U of x; notice that the integral curves of V are wind
curves. Take a smaller neighborhood U 0 and some ε > 0 so that the flow of V is
defined in [0, ε] × U 0 and γ([b − ε, b]) ⊂ U 0 . Choose {sn } % b and consider the
curve γn obtained by concatenating γ|[a,sn ] and the integral curve ρn : [0, εn ] → M
of V starting at γ(sn ), where εn := b − sn > 0. By construction, `F (ρn ) = εn =
`F (γ|[b−sn ,b] ) and `F (γn ) = r < `Fl (γn ). So, choosing some close ε0n < εn , the
                                                                              +
lengths of the corresponding restriction of γn allow us to write ρn (ε0n ) ∈ BΣ  (x0 , r)
           0
and ρn (εn ) → x, as required.
   (b) `F (γ) = r < `Fl (γ). Just notice that the points γ(b − ε) will belong to
  +
BΣ  (x0 , r) for small ε.
   (c) `F (γ) < r ≤ `Fl (γ). Extending γ beyond b by concatenating an F -admissible
                                                                +
piece, the points in the extension close to x will belong to BΣ   (x0 , r).
                                                                                       
    Finally, an interpretation of the c-balls is provided for the classical Finsler case.
Notice that, in this case, the restriction for a piecewise smooth curve to be “wind”
is just to assume that its speed is not bigger than 1 (in order to travel not faster
than the maximum allowed speed) and the velocity not to be 0 (by convenience, see
Remark 2.22 (3)); so, there are no relevant restrictions from a practical viewpoint.
Proposition 2.34. Let (M, F ) be a connected Finsler manifold and Σ its indicatrix,
regarded as a wind Finslerian structure with forward and backward balls BF+ (x0 , r)(=
BΣ+
    (x0 , r)) and BF− (x0 , r)(= BΣ
                                  −
                                    (x0 , r)). The following assertions are equivalent:
        +
  (i) B̂Σ (x0 , r) = B̄F+ (x0 , r) for all x0 ∈ M, r > 0.
 (ii) B̂Σ (x0 , r) = B̄F− (x0 , r) for all x0 ∈ M, r > 0.
        −

(iii) (M, F ) is (geodesically) convex, i.e., any pair of points (p, q) can be connected
      by a geodesic of length equal to the Finsler distance dF (p, q).
Proof. We will consider only the equivalence between (i) and (iii), as the convexity
of F is equivalent to the convexity of its reverse metric F̃ .
   (iii) ⇒ (i). Otherwise, there exists some x1 ∈ B̄F+ (x0 , r) \ B̂Σ
                                                                    +
                                                                      (x0 , r) and, by the
continuity of the distance, dF (x0 , x1 ) = r. But no curve of length equal to r can
join these points, which contradicts geodesic convexity.
24                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   (i) ⇒ (iii). Straightforward from the definitions (recall that when the wind
Finslerian structure is Finsler, Fl = +∞ and a minimizing curve must be a geo-
desic).                                                                       
2.4. Geodesics. We aim now to introduce a notion of geodesic for a wind Fins-
lerian structure which recovers the standard one for F and Fl . As the radius
corresponding to each v ∈ Σ ∩ (AE \ A) is not transversal to Σ, Σ does not carry
a globally defined smooth contact form such that the flow of its associated Reeb
vector field is compatible with the geodesic flow of both F and Fl (compare with
[15, Section 2]). Thus, we start by defining extremizing geodesics of Σ by unifying
local extremizing properties of both type of geodesics as follows.
Definition 2.35. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Finslerian manifold. A wind curve γ :
[a, b] → M , a < b, is called a unit extremizing geodesic if
                                +                  +
                       γ(b) ∈ B̂Σ (γ(a), b − a) \ BΣ (γ(a), b − a).                     (10)
We will say that γ is an extremizing geodesic (resp. pregeodesic) if it is an affine
(resp. arbitrary, according to the end of Convention 2.19) reparametrization of a
unit extremizing geodesic.
     Some elementary properties of these geodesics are the following.
Proposition 2.36. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Finsler structure.
 (i) If γ is a unit extremizing geodesic of (M, Σ), then:
     (a) its restriction γ|[a0 ,b0 ] to any subinterval [a0 , b0 ], a ≤ a0 < b0 ≤ b is also a
          unit extremizing geodesic. In particular,
                                 +                  +
                        γ(t) ∈ B̂Σ (γ(a), t − a) \ BΣ (γ(a), t − a)
           for every t ∈ [a, b];
       (b) at least one of the following two properties holds:
                                         +
                                 γ(b) ∈
                                      / BΣ (γ(a), `F (γ)),                              (11)
                         +
                 γ(b) ∈
                      / BΣ (γ(a), `Fl (γ))         (with `Fl (γ) < +∞).                (12)
           Moreover, in the first case, F (γ̇) ≡ 1 everywhere and in the second one
           Fl (γ̇) ≡ 1 everywhere.
 (ii) If a wind curve γ satisfies (11) (resp. (12)), then this same property holds for
      the restriction γ|[a0 ,b0 ] . Moreover, if γ is also strictly regular or, more gener-
      ally, it satisfies the hypotheses in Proposition 2.32, then it is an extremizing
      pregeodesic.
(iii) If a constant curve γx0 (t) = x0 for all t ∈ [a, b] is a (unit) extremizing geodesic
      then x0 ∈ Mcrit . In this case, γx0 will be called an extremizing exceptional
      geodesic.
Proof. (i) For (a), assume by contradiction that (10) is violated in a subinterval so
                  +
that γ(b0 ) ∈ BΣ    (γ(a0 ), b0 − a0 ) (recall that (7) holds). So, there will exist a wind
             0 0
curve γ̃ : [a , b ] → M satisfying both strict inequalities in (7), and so will do the
concatenation γ1 : [a, b] → M of γ|[a,a0 ] , γ̃ and γ|[b,b0 ] defined as
                                       (
                                         γ(t) if t ∈ [a, b] \ [a0 , b0 ],
                             γ1 (t) =
                                         γ̃(t) if t ∈ [a0 , b0 ],
in contradiction with (10) (for all the interval [a, b]).
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             25


   For (b), notice that by the assumptions,
                                          +
                                 γ(b) 6∈ BΣ (γ(a), b − a)                              (13)
and `F (γ) ≤ b − a ≤ `Fl (γ). Moreover, (13) implies that at least one of the
inequalities must be an equality; so, replace b − a with `F (γ) or `Fl (γ) in (13). For
the last assertion, observe that, among the points where F ◦ γ̇ and Fl ◦ γ̇ can be
different from 1, they are continuous except in the (finite set of) breaks.
    (ii) The curve γ̃ which shows that (11) (resp. (12)) does not hold for γ|[a0 ,b0 ] ,
can be concatenated (as in (a) above) to obtain the contradiction that neither this
property could hold for γ.
    For the last assertion, reparametrize γ as a wind curve with domain [0, `F (γ)] or
[0, `Fl (γ)], (see Proposition 2.32), and (10) must hold.
    (iii) By our conventions, γx0 is Σ- admissible only when x0 ∈ Mcrit .            
   Proposition 2.36 (i)-(b) suggests that extremizing pregeodesics satisfy minimiza-
tion or maximization properties. Let us introduce a natural variational setting.
Definition 2.37. Let γ : [a, b] → M be a wind curve between x0 and x1 , and
assume that {a = t0 ≤ . . . ≤ tn = b} is a subset of the interval [a, b] such that
γ|[ti−1 ,ti ] is smooth, for each i ∈ {1, . . . , n}. Let CxΣ0 ,x1 [a, b] := {ρ ∈ CxΣ0 ,x1 :
 ρ is defined on [a, b]}, and analogously let CxA0 ,x1 [a, b] = {ρ ∈ CxA0 ,x1 : ρ is defined
on [a, b]}. A (proper) wind variation of γ is a continuous map ψ : (−ε, ε) × [a, b] →
M , such that ψ = ψ(s, t) is a C 2 map on (−ε, ε) × [ti−1 , ti ], ψ(0, ·) = γ and for each
s ∈ (−ε, ε), ψs : = ψ(s, ·) ∈ CxΣ0 ,x1 [a, b]. A wind variation will be said an F -wind
variation if ψs ∈ CxA0 ,x1 [a, b], for each s ∈ (−ε, ε) \ {0}.
   Observe that, according to Definition 2.37, any wind variation of an F -wind
curve must be F -wind (reducing ε if necessary).
Example 2.38. The wind restriction for a variation may be somewhat subtle.
Consider, for example, the case in that the wind Finsler manifold is just a Rie-
mannian one, and one is looking for wind variations ψ of a unit extremizing geo-
desic γ : [a, b] → M . Of course, such geodesics are just the minimizing geodesics
for the Riemannian manifold parametrized by arc length. For the variation ψ we
must impose F (ψ̇s ) ≤ 1, and `F (ψs ) ≤ `F (γ). So, a non-trivial wind variation can
exist only when γ(b) is the first conjugate point of γ. The non-existence of such a
variation before the first conjugate point means implicitly that γ minimizes strictly
among nearby curves. Clearly, one can consider also geodesics parametrized at a
different speed c: in the case c < 1 wind variations are equal to classical variations
but, in the case c > 1, the geodesic is not a wind curve and, so, no wind variation
is defined.
  The following result suggests that the question of maximization / minimization
becomes somewhat subtle.
Lemma 2.39. Let γ ∈ CxΣ0 ,x1 [a, b] be a unit extremizing geodesic satisfying (11),
hence `F (γ) = b − a ≤ `Fl (γ). If there exists a wind curve α ∈ CxΣ0 ,x1 [a, b] s.t.
`F (α) < `F (γ) then α is a unit extremizing geodesic satisfying (12) but not (11),
i.e.:
                     `F (α) < `F (γ) = b − a = `Fl (α) ≤ `Fl (γ).
Proof. Being α a wind curve, (7) holds and, so, b − a = `Fl (α) because, otherwise,
       +
x1 ∈ BΣ  (x0 , b − a).                                                           
26                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


     Of course, a dual version of the result holds for the case that γ satisfies (12).
Example 2.40. We emphasize that such an α can exist in some particular cases.
In fact, notice first that, for any wind Minkowskian norm Σ on Rn , the unit ex-
tremizing geodesics are the straight lines with velocity constantly equal to any
vector of Σ. Now, consider a strong wind Minkowskian example (R2 , Σ) obtained
by the displacement of the usual unit sphere by the (constant) vector (2, 0), and
construct a wind Finslerian cylinder (S 1 × R, Σ) by identifying each (x, y) with
                                                                          +
(x + 1, y), see Fig. 4. Choose the Minkowskian wind c-ball B̂Σ              ((0, 0), r0 ) ⊂ R2
with radius r0 = 1/2. As the natural Euclidean diameter (as a subset of the Eu-
                        +
clidean space R2 ) of B̂Σ ((0, 0), r0 ) is 1, its projection in S 1 × R identifies the points
p1 = (1/2, 0), p2 = (3/2, 0) in a single one pC . Then, the univocally determined
unit extremizing geodesics β1 , β2 : [0, r0 ] → R2 from (0, 0) to p1 , p2 (resp.), project
onto geodesics of S 1 × R which play the role of α and γ in Lemma 2.39.




          Figure 4. A wind Finslerian cylinder (S 1 × R, Σ). The shaded
                                         +
          region represents the c-ball B̂Σ ((0, 0), 1/2)

   That is, extremizing geodesics are either global minimizers of `F or global maxi-
mizers of `Fl on CxΣ0 ,x1 [a, b] except when a curve α as above appears. However, one
can check that such a curve cannot appear among nearby geodesics in the following
sense.
Proposition 2.41. Let γ : [a, b] → M be a unit extremizing geodesic between x0
and x1 . Then, one of the following exclusive alternatives holds:
                                    +
  (i) `F (γ) < `Fl (γ) and x1 6∈ BΣ   (x0 , `F (γ)) or, equally, `F (γ) = b − a < `Fl (γ).
      Then γ minimizes the length functional of F between the curves ψs defined
      by any wind variation ψ : (−, ) × [a, b] → M of γ for |s| sufficiently small
      (0 ≤ |s| < 0 for some 0 ≤ ). In this case γ will be called a minimizing unit
      geodesic.
                                             +
 (ii) `F (γ) < `Fl (γ) < +∞ and x1 6∈ BΣ        (x0 , `Fl (γ)) or, equally, `F (γ) < b − a =
      `Fl (γ). Then, γ maximizes the length functional of Fl in a sense analogous to
      (i) above. In this case, γ will be called a maximizing unit geodesic.
(iii) `F (γ) = `Fl (γ) (necessarily equal to b − a). Then, both (11) and (12) hold,
      and the velocity of γ lies in AE \ Al . In this case, γ will be called a boundary
      unit geodesic.
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                            27


Moreover, the restriction of γ to any closed subinterval [a0 , b0 ] of [a, b] also satis-
fies the same type of extremizing property (i), (ii), (iii) as above (minimization,
maximization or velocity in A \ Al as the original γ).
Proof. The distinction of cases comes from Proposition 2.36.
   (i) Assume, by contradiction, that there exists a wind variation of γ such that
for some sequence sn → 0, `F (ψsn ) < `F (γ), for each n ∈ N. By Lemma 2.39,
`Fl (ψsn ) = b − a and, thus, Fl (ψ̇sn ) ≡ 1. As {ψ̇sn (t)}n → γ̇(t) for all t, and Fl is
continuous away from 0 (but, there, its value is equal to 1 too) then Fl (γ̇) ≡ 1. As
a consequence, a contradiction with the inequality in the lengths of γ appears.
   (ii) Analogous to part (i).
   For (iii) use part (2) of Remark 2.31. For the last assertion, recall the parts (i)
and (ii) of Proposition 2.36.
                                                                                       
Definition 2.42. We say that an extremizing geodesic (or more generally, pre-
geodesic) is minimizing, maximizing or boundary if it can be reparametrized as a
unit extremizing geodesic satisfying respectively (i), (ii) or (iii) in Proposition 2.41.
Example 2.43. Notice that the same geodesic can admit two reparametrizations,
one as a minimizing unit geodesic and the other as a maximizing one, so that the
possibilities (i) and (ii) are not exclusive. For example, this will happen for all the
Σ- admissible straight lines of a strong wind Minkowskian structure regarded as
a wind Finslerian structure. In fact, the straight lines starting at the origin and
tangent to the indicatrix determine the boundary geodesics, where both equalities
(11) and (12) hold, as the F - and Fl -lengths coincide for each one of them. The
straight lines inside this cone also satisfy (11) and (12), even though these lengths
are now different, and they consequently admit two different parametrizations as
unit geodesics, one with F (γ̇) ≡ 1 (minimizing) and the other one with Fl (γ̇) ≡ 1
(maximizing). Notice also that a more classical approach also shows that such
lines minimize locally for any conic Finsler norm F (see [51, Section 3.4]), and an
analogous reasoning shows that they maximize locally for any Lorentzian norm.
  Finally, we arrive at the following definition of geodesic.
Definition 2.44. Let I ⊂ R be an interval. We say that a curve γ : I → M is a unit
geodesic of the wind Finslerian structure (M, Σ) if, locally, it is a unit extremizing
geodesic, namely, for every t ∈ I there exists ε > 0 such that γ|[t−ε,t+ε]∩I is a unit
extremizing geodesic. We will say that γ is a geodesic (resp. pregeodesic) of the
wind Finslerian manifold (M, Σ) if it is an affine (resp. arbitrary) reparametrization
of a unit geodesic. An exceptional geodesic is a constant curve γx0 which is locally
an extremizing exceptional geodesic (according to Proposition 2.36(iii)).
   Notice that when the interval I is open,  > 0 can be chosen such that [t − ε, t +
ε] ⊂ I (in agreement with Definition 2.35), while if I is compact, the intersection
with I must be taken properly in the endpoints.
   Example 2.43 stresses that a (non-boundary extremizing) geodesic can satisfy
simultaneously both (11) and (12) for different “radii”
             r1 (t, ε) = `F (γ|[t−ε,t+ε]∩I ) and r2 (t, ε) = `Fl (γ|[t−ε,t+ε]∩I ).
Thus, the names boundary, and locally minimizing or maximizing can be used only
as non-exclusive possibilities.
28                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


     Proposition 2.34 suggests the following general definition of convexity.
Definition 2.45. A wind Finslerian structure (M, Σ) is w-convex if for any x0 ∈ M
                  +                −
and r > 0, both B̂Σ (x0 , r) and B̂Σ (x0 , r) are closed. Moreover, we say that a wind
Finslerian structure is forward (resp. backward) complete if the domain of every
inextendible geodesic is an interval of the type (a, +∞) with a ≥ −∞ (resp. (−∞, b)
with b ≤ +∞)).
Proposition 2.46. The reverse Finsler structure Σ̃ = −Σ satisfies:
               +             −                      +              −
              BΣ (x0 , r) = B−Σ (x0 , r),         B̂Σ (x0 , r) = B̂−Σ (x0 , r).

So, it is w-convex iff so is Σ and it is forward complete iff Σ̃ is backward complete.
2.5. Link with geodesics of conic pseudo-Finsler metrics. We will say that
a conic pseudo-Finsler metric is non-degenerate when the fundamental tensor de-
fined in (3) is non-degenerate. In particular, by Proposition 2.5, the conic pseudo-
Finsler metrics F and Fl associated with a wind Finslerian structure are non-
degenerate. Our aim will be to justify that the non-boundary geodesics coincide
with the geodesics for F or Fl . Now, on the one hand, the fundamental tensor of Fl
is not positive definite and, on the other, the domains of F and Fl are only conic.
So, we will make a brief study before arriving at Theorem 2.53.
Definition 2.47. Let F be a non-degenerate conic pseudo-Finsler metric on M
with conic domain A. The Cartan tensor of F is defined as
                                                      3
                                                               !
                                1     ∂3        2
                                                     X
           Cv (w1 , w2 , w3 ) =               F   v+     si wi
                                4 ∂s3 ∂s2 ∂s1        i=1            s1 =s2 =s3 =0

for v ∈ A and w1 , w2 , w3 ∈ Tπ(v) M .
  Because of the non-degeneracy of gv , it makes sense to consider the Chern con-
nection and, thus, the formal Christoffel symbols that yield the geodesic equations.
However, following [67], it is especially convenient to study it as a family of affine
connections associated with F -admissible vector fields (recall Definition 2.20-(i)):
Definition 2.48. Let F be a non-degenerate conic pseudo-Finsler. Given an F -
admissible vector field V on an open subset Ω ⊂ M , we define ∇V as the unique
affine connection on Ω such that it is
      (1) torsion-free, namely,
                                  ∇VX Y − ∇VY X = [X, Y ]
          for every smooth vector fields X and Y on Ω,
      (2) and almost g-compatible, namely,
            X(gV (Y, Z)) = gV (∇VX Y, Z) + gV (Y, ∇VX Z) + 2CV (∇VX V, Y, Z),
          where X, Y and Z are smooth vector fields on Ω.
   This approach to Chern connection is very suitable to compute the variations of
the length and the energy functional as it was shown in [47, 76]. Let us describe it.
Definition 2.49. Given a chart ϕ : Ω ⊂ M → ϕ(Ω) ⊂ Rm , Ω open, ϕ(p) =
(x1 (p), x2 (p), . . . , xm (p)), we define the Christoffel symbols associated with ϕ and
                      WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                       29


to the F -admissible vector field V , Γkij (V ), by means of the equation
                                       X   m
                                   ∂                       ∂
                         ∇V ∂            =       Γkij (V ) k ,
                            ∂xi   ∂xj                     ∂x
                                           k=1
for i, j = 1, . . . , m.
   Observe that Γkij (V ) in p ∈ Ω depends only on Vp and not on the extension V
(see for example [47, Proposition 2.6]) and therefore Γkij is a real function defined on
T Ω∩A. Moreover, for any positive function λ on [a, b] we have Γkij (V ) = Γkij (λV ),
(see for example [47, Remark 2.4]). So the following definition becomes consistent:
Definition 2.50. Let γ : [a, b] → M be a curve and V be an F -admissible vector
field along γ. The covariant derivative of a vector field X along γ with reference
V is defined, (a) when the curve is contained in the domain of a coordinate chart
(Ω, ϕ), as
                            m              m
                           X   dX i ∂      X                      ∂
                  DγV X :=            i
                                        +      X i γ̇ j Γkij (V ) k ,         (14)
                           i=1
                                dt ∂x                            ∂x
                                            i,j,k=1
            1          m       1      m
where (X , . . . , X ) and (γ̇ , . . . , γ̇ ) are respectively the coordinates of X and
γ̇ in the coordinate basis of ϕ, (b) in the general case, cover the curve γ with a
finite number of coordinate charts and define DγV X in every interval contained in
one of these charts as in (14) (the fact that DγV X in (14) does not depend on the
chart used to compute it guarantees that the covariant derivative is well-defined).
Moreover, γ is a geodesic of (M, F ) if it is a (smooth) F -admissible curve satisfying
the equation
                                           Dγγ̇ γ̇ = 0.                             (15)
   As in the standard Finsler case, geodesics (resp. pregeodesics) are always criti-
cal points of the energy (resp. length) functional. Nevertheless, in order to ensure
that a piecewise smooth curve which is a critical point of the energy (resp. length)
functional becomes a geodesic (resp. pregeodesic), one should require that the Le-
gendre transform is injective (the non-degeneracy of gv implies that the Lagrangian
L = F 2 /2 is regular and thus, its Legendre transform is locally injective [1, Defi-
nition 3.5.8 and Proposition 3.5.10]), but global injectivity is naturally required to
avoid problems in the breaks, see [56]). Anyway, this always holds in our case,
as the following refinement of [81, Lemma 3.1.1] shows. Recall that the Legendre
transform of F is defined as the fibre derivative of L. By homogeneity, it is shown
that it coincides with the map LF : A → T ∗ M, such that for every v ∈ A, LF (v)
is given by LF (v)(u) = gv (v, u), u ∈ Tπ(v) M .
Proposition 2.51. Let F : A → R be a conic Finsler or a Lorentzian Finsler
metric on a manifold M such that Ap ∪ {0} is a convex set for all p ∈ M . Then,
its Legendre transform is injective (and, thus, a diffeomorphism onto its image).
   In particular, this happens for the conic Finsler metric and the Lorentzian Finsler
metric associated with any wind Finslerian structure Σ.
Proof. Recall that by the hypotheses on A, the indicatrix of F at p, (ΣF )p =
{v ∈ Tp M : F (v) = 1}, is a strongly convex hypersurface in Tp M (when F is a
Lorentzian Finsler metric, this is understood in the sense that the opposite normal
direction has been chosen in the computation of the second fundamental form).
Hence, if F is conic Finsler (resp. Lorentzian Finsler), the set Cp = {v ∈ Ap :
30                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


F (v) ≤ 1} ∪ {0p : if Ap = Tp M \ {0}} (resp. Cp = {v ∈ Ap : F (v) ≥ 1}) is convex.
Assume by contradiction that there exist two different vectors v1 , v2 ∈ A, such that
LF (v1 ) = LF (v2 ). Clearly, by homogeneity, v1 and v2 cannot be collinear. Then,
the non-extreme points of the segment joining v1 /F (v1 ) and v2 /F (v2 ) are contained
in the interior of Cp and the vector v1 /F (v1 ) − v2 /F (v2 ) points outwards Cp in
v1 /F (v1 ) but inwards in v2 /F (v2 ). This implies that LF (v1 /F (v1 ))(v2 /F (v2 ) −
v1 /F (v1 )) and LF (v2 /F (v2 ))(v2 /F (v2 )−v1 /F (v1 )) have different signs and so is, by
homogeneity, for LF (v1 )(v2 /F (v2 ) − v1 /F (v1 )) and LF (v2 )(v2 /F (v2 ) − v1 /F (v1 )),
a contradiction.                                                                            
Lemma 2.52. Assume that (M, F ) is a non-degenerate pseudo-Finsler manifold,
such that its Legendre transform LF is one-to-one. Then a curve γ ∈ ΩA        x0 ,x1 is a
geodesic of (M, F ) if and only if it is a critical point of the length functional and
F (γ̇) is constant.
Proof. Following the same lines as in [56, Proposition 3.1] we can deduce that a
curve γ ∈ ΩAx0 ,x1 is a critical point of the length functional if and only if it satisfies
the equation                                      
                                              γ̇
                                     Dγγ̇            = 0,                             (16)
                                            F (γ̇)
on the interval [a, b]. Then any reparametrization σ of γ such that F (σ̇) = const.
must be smooth and satisfy equation (15).                                                
Theorem 2.53. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Finslerian manifold and γ : [a, b] → M be
an F -admissible curve. If γ is a unit geodesic of (M, Σ) then it is a unit geodesic
of one of the two conic pseudo-Finsler metrics associated with Σ.
Proof. Let us show that γ either minimizes `F or maximizes `Fl locally. Be-
ing γ F -admissible and a unit geodesic of (M, Σ), either (i) or (ii) of Proposi-
tion 2.41 holds locally. Then for each t ∈ [a, b], there exists ε, depending on
t, such that γ|[a,b]∩[t−ε,t+ε] either minimizes `F or maximizes `Fl , for any fixed
endpoint variation wind variation of γ|[ã,b̃] , where ã, b̃ are the endpoints of the
interval [a, b] ∩ [t − ε, t + ε]. In the first case (the reasoning in the second case
is analogous), assume by contradiction that there exists a variation (non neces-
sarily a wind one) ψ : (−, ) × [ã, b̃] → M , such that `F (ψsn ) < `F (γ), for some
sequence sn → 0. Being γ F -admissible, also ψsn are so and, then, by Proposi-
tion 2.32 they can be reparametrized as wind curves on the interval [ã, b̃]. Moreover,
`F (γ|[ã,b̃] ) = b̃ − ã < `Fl (γ|[ã,b̃] ). Arguing as in the proof of Proposition 2.41-(i), we
then get `Fl (γ|[ã,b̃] ) = b̃ − ã, a contradiction. Therefore, γ|[ã,b̃] must minimize `F for
any variation ψ and by Lemma 2.52, this implies that γ satisfies (16) for F or Fl
on [a, b] ∩ [t − ε, t + ε] and therefore, being t arbitrary, on all [a, b]. Indeed, observe
that by Proposition 2.36 (i) (case (b)), when γ minimizes `F , then F (γ̇) ≡ 1 and
when γ maximizes `Fl , Fl (γ̇) ≡ 1. As both subsets, {s ∈ [a, b] : F (γ̇(s)) = 1} and
{s ∈ [a, b] : Fl (γ̇(s)) = 1}, are closed and disjoint (because γ̇ belongs to A) then
one of them coincides with [a, b] and the other is empty.                                    
2.6. Wind Riemannian structures. Let us focus now on a particularly impor-
tant case of wind Finslerian structures.
Definition 2.54. A wind Riemannian structure is a wind Finslerian structure Σ in
T M such that Σp = Σ ∩ Tp M is a (real non-degenerate) ellipsoid for every p ∈ M .
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                            31


Proposition 2.55. Any wind Riemannian structure Σ can be constructed univo-
cally as the displacement of the indicatrix of a smooth Riemannian metric gR along
a vector field W .
Proof. From Proposition 2.15, the field W of the centers of the ellipsoids Σp is
smooth and, by Proposition 2.13, the translated hypersurface Σ − W is a wind
Riemannian structure with centers at 0p , for each p ∈ M . By Proposition 2.12, it
defines a smooth Riemannian metric gR on M . Hence, Σ is defined by the equation
gR (v − W, v − W ) = 1 in T M . Clearly, if for any other Riemannian metric h0 and
vector field V , Σ is defined by the equation h0 (v − V, v − V ) = 1 then, necessarily,
V must be the field of the centers of the ellipsoids Σp and then equal to W , so that
h0 must be equal to gR .                                                             

   In addition to the previous characterization, the definition of a wind Riemannian
structure as a structure of ellipsoids suggests a second characterization in terms of
the zeroes of a pointwise polynomial of degree two (defined up to a pointwise smooth
non-vanishing factor). This second viewpoint will be interpreted in the next section
in terms of the conformal class of an SSTK splitting, which will allow us to obtain
a powerful characterization of the geometry of wind Riemannian structures.
   The following elements equivalent to gR , W will be used in the remainder and
will be well adapted to the case of SSTK splittings.
Definition 2.56. Given a wind Riemannian structure determined by a Riemann-
ian metric gR and a vector field W the associated triple (g0 , ω, Λ) is the triple
composed by g0 = gR and ω, Λ are the one-form and the function defined as
ω = −g0 ( · , W ), Λ = 1 − g0 (W, W ).
   Thanks to Proposition 2.55, we will also simply say that Σ is the translation
of a Riemannian metric, as in the case of Zermelo’s navigation problem. In fact,
in the case g0 (W, W ) < 1, the so-obtained Σ yields a Randers
                                                            q metric Z, that
is, Z(v) = α(v) + β(v) for every v ∈ T M , where α(v) =              h̃(v, v), being h̃ a
Riemannian metric on M and β a one-form such that its norm with respect to h̃
satisfies kβkh̃ < 1 at every point. Indeed, Randers metrics are characterized by
this property (see [4, Section 1.3], [29, §2.2] or the computations below). Let us
determine all the cases that appear when considering wind Riemannian structures,
refining Proposition 2.5.
Proposition 2.57. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian structure. At each point
p ∈ M , one of the following three exclusive cases holds
                                                    q for some one-form β, some
scalar product h̃ of index 0 or m − 1, and α(v) =      |h̃(v, v)|:
  (i) if the zero vector 0p belongs to the open unit ball Bp , then Σp determines
      a Randers norm, i.e., F (v) = α(v) + β(v), where h̃ is positive definite and
      kβkh̃ < 1 on Ap = Tp M ;
 (ii) if 0p lies in Σp , then Σp determines a Kropina norm, i.e.,
                                             α(v)2
                                   F (v) =         ,
                                             β(v)
     for a nowhere vanishing β and h̃ positive definite, defined on Ap = {v ∈ Tp M :
     β(v) > 0};
32                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


(iii) if 0p does not lie in Bp ∪ Σp , then Σp determines a proper wind Riemannian
      structure, i.e., a pair of conic pseudo-Minkowski norms:
                               F (v) = −α(v) + β(v),
                               Fl (v) = α(v) + β(v),
     defined on
                    Ap = {v ∈ Tp M : h̃(v, v) > 0 and β(v) > 0},
     where h̃ has index m − 1 and β satisfies β(v)2 > h̃(v, v), for all v ∈ Tp M \ {0},
     that is β ⊗ β − h̃ is positive definite.
Moreover, in all the three cases the converse holds.
Proof. Let (g0 , ω, Λ) be the triple associated with Σ according to Proposition 2.55
and Definition 2.56. The conic pseudo-Finsler metrics F and Fl associated with Σ
(see Proposition 2.12) are both determined by the equation
                                                    
                                  v           v
                           g0         − W,       −W =1
                                Z(v)        Z(v)
(recall (4)) which is equivalent to
                        g0 (v, v) + 2ω(v)Z(v) − ΛZ(v)2 = 0,                       (17)
and, whenever Λ 6= 0,
                                       p
                                ω(v) ∓    Λg0 (v, v) + ω 2 (v)
                       Z(v) =                                  .
                                            Λ
We are interested only in the solutions that make Z(v) positive.
  Case (i). If Λ(p) > 0 (0p ∈ Bp ), then the unique positive value of Z(v) is:
                                       p
                                ω(v) + Λg0 (v, v) + ω 2 (v)
                        F (v) =                                                (18)
                                             Λ
and the required h̃, β are then:
                               g0  ω ω                     ω
                          h̃ =    + ⊗ ,              β=      .                    (19)
                               Λ   Λ Λ                     Λ
Conversely, if F = α + β, with α the norm of a Riemannian metric h̃ and kβkh̃ < 1,
we can reconstruct g0 , ω and Λ from h̃, β, just by using (19) and defining
                     1
               Λ=       ,             where   ∆ := (h̃ − β ⊗ β)(β ] , β ] )       (20)
                    1+∆
being β ] the vector metrically equivalent to β for the metric h̃ − β ⊗ β. The
restriction kβkh̃ < 1 forces ∆ ≥ 0, i.e., 0 < Λ ≤ 1, which ensures the consistency
of the reconstruction of g0 , W and Λ from α and β (in fact, a posteriori, β ] = −W
and Λ = 1 − g0 (W, W )).
   However, in order to understand better this reconstruction for later referencing,
notice also that the vector B which is h̃-equivalent to β is proportional to β ] (if
h̃(B, v) = β(v) = 0 then (h̃ − β 2 )(B, v) = 0). More precisely, β ] = aB with
a = 1/(1 − h̃(B, B)) and 1 − h̃(B, B) > 0 (this follows equating the expressions
∆ = β(β ] ) = aβ(B) = ah̃(B, B) and ∆ = a2 (h̃ − β 2 )(B, B), the latter greater
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                          33


than 0 whenever B 6= 0 and equal to a2 h̃(B, B)(1 − h̃(B, B))). Then, putting
∆ = ah̃(B, B) in (20) one also has:
                                   Λ = 1 − h̃(B, B)                               (21)
(compare with [4, §1.3] and also [13, Proposition 3.1]).
   Case (iii). If Λ(p) < 0, at p ∈ M , then there are two solutions, one given by
(18) and the other by
                                        p
                                 ω(v) − Λg0 (v, v) + ω 2 (v)
                        Fl (v) =                                             (22)
                                             Λ
both defined in the open domain
               Ap = {v ∈ Tp M : −ω(v) > 0, Λg0 (v, v) + ω 2 (v) > 0}.
The required h̃, β are obtained by using again the expressions in (19). Observe that
in this case, h̃ is negative definite in the kernel of ω and h̃(W, W ) = g0 (W,W
                                                                             Λ2
                                                                                 )
                                                                                   > 0,
which implies that h̃ has index m − 1.
   For the converse, recall first that, if B is the vector h-metrically related to β,
then by the hypotheses, B cannot be 0 and (h̃ − β 2 )(B, B) < 0, i.e.:
                             h̃(B, B)(1 − h̃(B, B)) < 0.                          (23)
Moreover, h̃(B, B) cannot be negative. Indeed, otherwise, B would be a spacelike
vector for the Lorentzian scalar product −h̃. So, we could take a timelike vector
v for −h̃ orthogonal to B and we would have (h̃ − β 2 )(v, v) = h̃(v, v) > 0, in
contradiction with the hypotheses on h̃, β. Therefore, (23) forces h̃(B, B) > 1.
This ensures that Λ, ω, g0 can be reconstructed from (21) and (19) with Λ(p) < 0.
   Case (ii). Now Λ(p) = 0 and from (17), we obtain only one metric
                                              g0 (v, v)
                                  F (v) = −             ,                         (24)
                                               2ω(v)
which is of the type in (ii) with α the norm associated with g0 and β = −2ω. For
                              h̃
the converse, choose g0 = 4h̃(B,B) and W = 12 B, and recall that h̃(B, v) = β(v) for
every v ∈ T M .                                                                   
   Observe that the analysis in Proposition 2.57 was accomplished in each single
tangent space, while a wind Riemannian structure in a manifold M can attain
all the three possible types. The standard expressions of the metrics given in the
proposition do not allow us to give a unified expression on T M \ 0 of the metric F
which can be achieved instead as follows:
Proposition 2.58. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian structure with associated
triple (g0 , ω, Λ) (according to Definition 2.56). Then, the conic Finsler metric
pointwise determined by Proposition 2.57 is equal to
                                            g (v, v)
                       F (v) =             p0                     ,               (25)
                                 −ω(v) +     Λg0 (v, v) + ω 2 (v)
defined, up to the zero section, in the interior of
                                           p
                 {v ∈ T M \ 0 : −ω(v) + Λg0 (v, v) + ω 2 (v) > 0},
on all T M . Moreover, Fl on Al is equal to the expression above with a minus sign
before the root.
34                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Proof. Observe that the expressions in (18) and (24) coincide with (25). In fact,
the last inequality is fulfilled for all v ∈ Tp M \ {0} whenever Λ(p) > 0, it reduces
to {v ∈ Tp M : −ω(v) > 0} whenever Λ(p) = 0, and it includes implicitly the
restrictions Λ(p)g0 (v, v) + ω 2 (v) > 0 plus −ω(v) > 0 when Λ(p) < 0. For Fl , it is
enough to notice that (22) is equal to
                                       g (v, v)
                            −         p 0
                                ω(v) + Λg0 (v, v) + ω 2 (v)
for any v ∈ Al .                                                                     
  The case Λ ≥ 0 (g0 (W, W ) ≤ 1) makes possible a simple description of the wind
Riemannian structure Σ, as it determines a unique conic Finsler metric F , which
adopts either the Randers or the Kropina form in Proposition 2.57.
Definition 2.59. A Randers-Kropina metric on a manifold M is any wind Rie-
mannian structure Σ such that 0p ∈ B̄p for all p ∈ M so that Λ ≥ 0 and the
associated conic Finsler metric F is given by (25) with domain
                             (
         [                     Tp M \ {0},                     if g0 (Wp , Wp ) < 1,
   A=       Ap , where Ap =
        p∈M
                               {v ∈  Tp M : g0 (W p , v) > 0}, if g0 (Wp , Wp ) = 1.

   When the wind is strong Λ < 0 (g0 (W, W ) > 1) or, simply, when one restricts
to the region Ml , a specific property of the wind Riemannian case holds, namely,
the Lorentzian Finsler metric Fl can be described formally in terms of F . In fact,
notice that the expression (22) can be obtained from (18) just by applying F to −v
and reversing the sign, and analogously this happens with the expression of Fl and
F in part (iii) of Proposition 2.57. Summing up, we have:
Proposition 2.60. Let Ml be the strong wind region of a wind Riemannian struc-
ture, and F, Fl its associated conic pseudo-Finsler metrics. Then there exist a
one-form β and a Lorentzian metric −h̃ such that β ⊗ β − h̃ is Riemannian satis-
fying:
  (i) the domain of F and Fl is
                    Al = {v ∈ T Ml : h̃(v, v) > 0 and β(v) > 0}.
 (ii) F = −α + β.
(iii) Fl = −F frev , where F frev is the formal reverse of F , defined by:
                      F frev (v) = F (−v),               ∀v ∈ Al ,
     and F (−v) is obtained by applying the expression (ii) to the vectors of −Al .
Remark 2.61. Taking into account also the expressions for the conic pseudo-
Finsler metrics F̃ , F̃l with domains associated with the reverse wind Riemannian
structure Σ̃ we can write:
       F̃ (v) = F (−v),           F̃l (v) = Fl (−v) = −F (v),           ∀v ∈ −A,
where F (v) is computed by applying the expression (ii) in the previous proposition.
So, the formal expression of F allows us to write easily F̃ , Fl and F̃l —these consid-
erations can be extended naturally to the bigger domains AE in Convention 2.19.
This simplifies notations and makes clear that a piece of the indicatrix determines
all of them. Even though we will usually work with F and Fl , some formulae will
be written conveniently by using above expressions.
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             35


                  3. Fermat structures for SSTK splittings
   In a series of papers [21, 42, 20, 23, 18, 36], it has been developed a detailed corre-
spondence between the geometric properties of Randers spaces and the conformal
structure of stationary spacetimes, including: variational principles for geodesics
of a Finsler metric vs. Fermat’s principle for lightlike and timelike geodesics [21],
links between the curvatures of Randers and stationary spaces [42], Morse theory for
Finsler geodesics vs. Morse theory for lightlike and timelike geodesics [20, 22], Fins-
lerian distances and geodesics vs. causal structure [23], convexity of hypersurfaces
vs. visibility and gravitational lensing [18], Busemann plus Gromov boundaries vs.
causal boundaries [36] and almost isometries vs. conformal maps [48]. As pointed
out in [23], such a correspondence would be extendible to obtain further properties
of general Finslerian manifolds suggested by the spacetime viewpoint, yielding so a
broader relation between Lorentzian and Finslerian geometries. In the next section
we consider the class of spacetimes that allows us to extend this relation to wind
Riemannian structures.

3.1. Spacetimes with a space-transverse Killing field. We will follow [8] and
[71] for the general background on spacetimes and causality. In particular, if (L, g)
is an (m + 1)-dimensional Lorentzian manifold (with signature (−, +, . . . , +)) we
say, following [71], that a tangent vector v ∈ T L is timelike (resp. lightlike; causal;
spacelike; non-spacelike) if g(v, v) < 0 (resp. g(v, v) = 0 and v 6= 0; v is either
timelike or lightlike; g(v, v) > 0; g(v, v) ≤ 0). A spacetime is a connected time-
oriented Lorentzian manifold, which is also denoted (L, g); the time orientation
continuously selects a causal cone at each tangent space and it makes possible to
distinguish between future-pointing causal vectors (namely, those in the selected
cone) and past-pointing ones. We say that two points p, q ∈ L are chronologically
related (p is chronologically related to q or p lies in the chronological past of q),
denoted p  q, if there exists a future-pointing timelike curve (i.e. its tangent
vectors are always causal future-pointing) from p to q. The chronological future of
p is defined as the subset I + (p) = {q ∈ L : p  q} and analogously the chronological
past as I − (p) = {q ∈ L : q  p}. Moreover, we say that p, q are strictly causally
related (resp. causally related), denoted p < q (resp. p ≤ q), if there exists a
future-pointing causal curve from p to q (resp. either p < q or p = q). The causal
future and past of p are defined respectively as J + (p) = {q ∈ L : p ≤ q} and
J − (p) = {q ∈ L : q ≤ p}.

Remark 3.1. A well-known property to be used later is that, whenever p ≤ q ≤ r
(p, q, r ∈ L), either p  r or the unique non-spacelike curves from p to r are
null pregeodesics (with no conjugate points except, at most, the endpoints); other
properties such as p ≤ q  r ⇒ p  r and the fact that the relation  is open are
also well known.

   Now, let us focus on the class of spacetimes relevant for our approach.

Definition 3.2. A spacetime (L, g) is standard with a space-transverse Killing
vector field (SSTK) if it admits a (necessarily non-vanishing) complete Killing vector
field K and a spacelike hypersurface S transverse to K which is crossed exactly once
by all the integral curves of K.
36                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Proposition 3.3. A spacetime is SSTK if and only if it is isometric to a product
manifold R × M endowed with a Lorentzian metric g of the form
                    g = −(Λ ◦ π)dt2 + π ∗ ω ⊗ dt + dt ⊗ π ∗ ω + π ∗ g0 ,                 (26)
where Λ, ω and g0 are, respectively, a smooth real function, a one form and a
Riemannian metric on M , π : R × M → M is the natural projection, and π ∗ the
pullback operator, satisfying the following relation:
                                      Λ + kωk20 > 0,                                     (27)
being kωk0 the pointwise g0 norm of ω. In this case, the projection t : R × M → R
satisfies that −∇t is a timelike vector field, which can be assumed future-pointing
(i.e. time-orientating the spacetime) with no loss of generality.
Proof. Notice first that the bilinear form g given in (26) is a Lorentzian metric if and
only if (27) is fulfilled at each x ∈ M . In fact, let e1 , e2 , . . . , em be an orthonormal
basis for (Tx M, g0 ) such that ω(e1 ) = kωk0 and ω(ei ) = 0, for each i = 2, . . . , m. Let
B = {(1, 0), (0, e1 ), (0, e2 ), . . . , (0, em )} be the corresponding basis of (R × Tx M, g)
and MB (g) the matrix representation of g in B. The only non-diagonal elements
different from 0 in this matrix come from the product of the first two elements of
B and, thus
                         det MB (g) = −Λ − ω(e1 )2 = −Λ − kωk20 ,                         (28)
which must be negative to ensure the Lorentzian signature. Clearly, (26) defines
an SSTK with K = ∂t and S equal to any slice St0 := t−1 (t0 ).
   Conversely, given any non-vanishing Killing vector field K on a Lorentzian man-
ifold (L, g), and any choice of a spacelike hypersurface S transverse to K, a local
expression of the metric as in (26) holds on some neighborhood U = (a, b)×U0 ⊂ L,
(a, b) ⊂ R, U0 ⊂ S, with K identifiable to ∂t . However, the global assumption on
S plus the completeness of K ensure that the local expression can be obtained
globally just by moving S (which would be identified to the slice {0} × M ) with
the flow of K.
   For the last assertion, observe that ∇t is timelike because it is orthogonal to the
spacelike slices {t0 } × M and it does not vanish, as g(∇t, ∂t ) = 1. Finally, it is not
a restriction that −∇t time-orientates the spacetime as, otherwise, the change of
K by −K (or t by −t) yields the expression (26) with ω changed by −ω.                       
Remark 3.4. (1) A temporal function on a spacetime is a smooth function t with
past-pointing timelike gradient ∇t, so that t is in particular a time function, i.e. a
continuous function that increases on any future-pointing causal curve (see, e.g. [8]
and [71]). The existence of the latter for a spacetime can be chosen as a definition
of the step stable causality in the so-called causal ladder or hierarchy of spacetimes
[71] (in particular, these spacetimes are strongly causal, i.e. all the causal curves
that leave a fixed neighbourhood of a point cannot return arbitrarily near the same
point).
   The previous proposition shows that the constructed function t is a temporal
one and, so, SSTK spacetimes are always stably causal. In Theorem 4.9 we will
see that, whenever Λ ≥ 0, they are also causally continuous (the subsequent step
in the causal ladder which holds intuitively when, additionally, the chronological
future I + (p) and past I − (p) of any point p ∈ L vary continuously with p).
   (2) The previous characterization of SSTK spacetimes can be refined for the
case of stationary spacetimes, i.e. those spacetimes which admit a timelike Killing
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             37


vector field K. It is known [50] that such a spacetime is standard stationary (i.e.,
an SSTK splitting with Λ > 0) iff K is a complete vector field and the spacetime
is distinguishing (i.e., p 6= q implies I + (p) 6= I + (q) and I − (p) 6= I − (q)). The
reader can check that all our approach is widely simplified for standard stationary
spacetimes and agrees with [23].
Convention 3.5. (1) Except if otherwise specified, in what follows we will as-
sume that the Killing vector field K and the spacelike hypersurface S of an SSTK
spacetime are prescribed and, so, an SSTK splitting will mean the product man-
ifold R × M endowed with the metric g in (26) and the (future) time-orientation
provided by −∇t. When different splittings obtained by changing the hypersurface
S will be taken into account (as in Subsection 6.2), we will point it out explicitly.
   (2) When there is no possibility of confusion, we will write a tangent vector to a
point (t0 , x0 ) ∈ R×M simply as (τ, v) ∈ R×T M , since the metric g is independent
of the time coordinate t.
3.2. Associated wind Riemannian structure. Next, our goal is to associate a
natural wind Riemannian structure with any SSTK as in previous convention.
Proposition 3.6. Let Λ, ω and g0 be a function, a one-form, and a Riemannian
metric on M . Then, the set Σ ⊂ T M of solutions of
                              − Λ + 2ω(v) + g0 (v, v) = 0                            (29)
constitutes a wind Riemannian structure if and only if the inequality (27) holds.
                                       −1
In this case, putting Ω = Λ + kωk20        , this wind Riemannian structure is the
displacement of the indicatrix of the Riemannian metric gR = Ωg0 along the vector
field W which is g0 -metrically equivalent to the one-form −ω.
Proof. Notice first that, as g0 is Riemannian, at each p ∈ M , Σ ∩ Tp M must be
either the empty set or a point or an ellipsoid, and the last possibility holds if and
only if (27) holds at p. In this case, the transversality of Σ is automatically satisfied.
To check this plus the last assertion, multiply (29) by Ω and observe that Σ is the
displacement of the indicatrix of gR by W (in fact, ΩΛ = 1 − gR (W, W ) so that
(29) becomes equivalent to gR (v − W, v − W ) = 1); in particular, Proposition 2.13
applies.                                                                                

Lemma 3.7. If a tangent vector (a, v) ∈ R × T M is lightlike, then a 6= 0 and, in
this case, it is future-pointing iff a > 0.
Proof. Straightforward from the fact that the slices t = const. are spacelike and t
is a temporal function.                                                          

Proposition 3.8. The set Σ of all the vectors v ∈ T M such that (1, v) is a future-
pointing lightlike vector in R × T M becomes a wind Riemannian structure on M .
Moreover, the reverse wind Riemannian structure Σ̃ = −Σ contains all the vectors
w ∈ T M such that (−1, w) is a past-pointing lightlike vector in R × T M .
Proof. From the expression of the metric, (1, v) is a lightlike vector iff v satisfies
(29). Proposition 3.6 and the consistency of the causal characters in Lemma 3.7
yield the first assertion; the last one follows from Definition 2.17 and the fact that
(−1, −v) is lightlike iff so is (1, v).                                             
38                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   Notice that lightlike vectors are preserved by all the metrics pointwise conformal
to g. When a conformal factor Ω > 0 is invariant by the flow of K = ∂t , it induces
naturally a function also denoted by Ω which multiplies the three elements Λ, ω, g0 .
Definition 3.9. The Fermat structure associated with (the conformal class of) an
SSTK splitting is the wind Riemannian structure Σ obtained in Proposition 3.8.
Theorem 3.10. The following statements hold:
   (i) Any wind Riemannian structure Σ is the Fermat structure associated with
       the conformal class of an SSTK spacetime with a representative (g0 , ω, Λ),
       Λ = 1 − g0 (W, W ), W the vector field g0 -metrically equivalent to −ω.
          Conversely, given the Fermat structure Σ associated with the conformal
       class of an SSTK splitting, there exists a unique representative (g0 , ω, Λ)
       of the class such that the vector field W , g0 -associated with −ω satisfies
       Λ = 1 − g0 (W, W ) and Σ is the wind Riemannian structure defined by g0
       and the displacement W .
  (ii) Two Fermat structures Σ, Σ0 associated with two SSTK splittings deter-
       mined by the data (g0 , ω, Λ), (g00 , ω 0 , Λ0 ) on M are equal if and only if the
       two spacetimes are pointwise conformal, i.e., there exists some function
       Ω > 0 on M such that (g00 , ω 0 , Λ0 ) = (Ωg0 , Ωω, ΩΛ).
Proof. (i) It is an immediate consequence of Proposition 3.6.
   (ii) Recall first that two pointwise conformal SSTK splittings as in (26) must
differ in a conformal factor invariant by the flow of ∂t and, so, they will induce
a positive function Ω on M . So, use simply that two spacetimes are pointwise
conformal iff they have the same lightlike vectors with the same time-orientations.
                                                                                 
     The regions of strong and weak wind can be easily determined (see Fig. 5).




                   Figure 5. The time cone in an SSTK splitting

Proposition 3.11. Let (M, Σ) be a Fermat structure, p ∈ M and 0p ∈ Tp M the
zero vector:
   (i) 0p ∈ Bp iff Kp is timelike (Λ(p) > 0). In this case, Σp determines a Randers
norm.
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                 39


  (ii) 0p ∈ Σp iff Kp is lightlike (Λ(p) = 0). In this case, Σp determines a Kropina
norm.
  (iii) 0p 6∈ B̄p iff Kp is spacelike (Λ(p) < 0). In this case, Σp defines a strong
wind Minkowskian structure.
Proof. It is straightforward from the facts that 0p satisfies (29) iff Λ(p) = 0 and
the unit ball Bp defined by Σp is obtained by replacing the equality in (29) with
the inequality <.                                                                 
3.3. Lightlike vectors and link with Zermelo metrics. Next, let us describe
in a precise way the lightlike vectors of an SSTK splitting and write the Finslerian
elements of the Fermat structure in terms of Λ, ω, g0 .
Proposition 3.12. Given an SSTK splitting determined by Λ, ω, g0 as in (26),
define, for each x ∈ M :
            (
              Tx M \ {0}                                         if Λ(x) > 0,
     Ax =
              {v ∈ Tx M : − ω(v) > 0, Λ(x)g0 (v, v) + ω(v)2 > 0} if Λ(x) ≤ 0.
Let Ml = {x ∈ M : Λ(x) < 0} and put
                          [                                  [
                     A=       Ax ,                    Al =          Ax ,
                                x∈M                          x∈Ml

as well as AE (as defined in Definition 2.11). Define F and Fl as
                                  g (v, v)
               F (v) =           p0                  ,                     ∀v ∈ A,        (30)
                          −ω(v) + Λg0 (v, v) + ω(v)2
where, when Λ(x) = 0, the previous expression is understood as
                        g0 (v, v)
            F (v) = −             ,            ∀v ∈ {w ∈ Tx M : − ω(w) > 0},              (31)
                         2ω(v)
and
                                                g (v, v)
      Fl (v) = (−F frev (v) :=) −              p 0                 ,          ∀v ∈ Al ,   (32)
                                      ω(v) +    Λg0 (v, v) + ω(v)2
and extend them to A ∪ AE as in Convention 2.19.
    A tangent vector (τ, v) ∈ R × T M is a future-pointing lightlike vector if and only
if τ > 0, v ∈ A ∪ AE and one of the three following cases holds:
      (i) When Λ(x) > 0, then (τ, v) = (F (v), v).
     (ii) When Λ(x) = 0, then
            • (τ, v) = (τ, 0x ), or
            • v ∈ Ax and (τ, v) = (F (v), v).
    (iii) When Λ(x) < 0, (necessarily, Ax $ (AE )x ), then
            • (τ, v) = (F (v), v), iff τ Λ(x) − ω(v) ≥ 0,
            • (τ, v) = (Fl (v), v), iff τ Λ(x) − ω(v) ≤ 0,
            • (τ, v) = (F (v), v) = (Fl (v), v) iff τ Λ(x) − ω(v) = 0.
          Moreover, 0 < F (v) ≤ Fl (v) and the equality holds iff v ∈ (AE )x \ Ax .
Proof. This can be computed directly by imposing that (τ, v) must be lightlike, i.e.,
−Λτ 2 + 2ω(v)τ + g0 (v, v) = 0 and thus
                     p
             ω(v) ± Λg0 (v, v) + ω(v)2               g (v, v)
        τ=                               =         p0                    ,     (33)
                           Λ               −ω(v) ± Λg0 (v, v) + ω(v)2
40                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


the first equality whenever Λ 6= 0 and the last one valid even if Λ vanishes whenever
v 6= 0. So, the result follows from a straightforward discussion of cases.         
   The last part of this proposition characterizes precisely all the lightlike vectors
of the spacetime. However, it will be useful to know exactly which are all the
causal vectors that project on a given tangent vector to M (recall Fig. 7). A
straightforward discussion of cases yields the following possibilities.
Corollary 3.13 (Future-pointing causal vectors looked from M ). Let (t0 , x0 ) ∈
R × M and v ∈ Tx0 M \ {0}. Then, the following cases can occur:
(a) Case Λ(x0 ) > 0. The vector (F (v), v) tangent at (t0 , x0 ) (with F computed
    indistinctly either from (30) or from the first expression in (33) with the positive
    sign) is a future-pointing lightlike vector; moreover, all future-pointing lightlike
    vectors in R × Tx0 M can be written in this way. The vector (τ, v) tangent at
    (t0 , x0 ) is future-pointing timelike iff F (v) < τ ; moreover, all future-pointing
    timelike vectors in R × Tx0 M can be written either in this way or as (τ, 0) with
    τ > 0.
(b) Case Λ(x0 ) = 0. When v ∈ Ax0 , the vector (F (v), v) (with F computed from
    (31)) is lightlike and future-pointing; moreover, all future-pointing lightlike vec-
    tors can be written either in this way or as (τ, 0) with τ > 0. The vector (τ, v)
    is a future-pointing timelike vector iff F (v) < τ ; moreover, all future-pointing
    timelike vectors can be written in this way.
(c) Case Λ(x0 ) < 0. One of the following exclusive alternatives occurs:
    (c1) v ∈ Ax0 . Then, there are exactly two future-pointing lightlike vectors
           (F (v), v), (Fl (v), v), F (v) < Fl (v), in R × Tx0 M (computed from (30) and
           (32)) that project onto v. The tangent vector (τ, v) is a future-pointing
           timelike vector iff F (v) < τ < Fl (v); moreover, all the future-pointing
           timelike vectors in the case (c) can be written in this way.
    (c2) v belongs to (AE )x0 \ Ax0 . Then, there is exactly one future-pointing light-
           like vector in R × Tx0 M and no timelike vector that projects onto v. The
           first component of this lightlike vector can be computed by using formally
           any of the two expressions (30) and (32), as they agree when computed
           on such a v (recall also that, as in the previous sub-case, −ω(v) > 0
           necessarily).
    (c3) v does not belong to (AE )x0 . Then, no future-pointing lightlike nor time-
           like vector in R × M projects onto v.
Remark 3.14. In the standard stationary case, A = T M \ 0, Al = ∅ and F can
be safely computed from any of the expressions in (33) just by choosing the sign
+. So, F becomes a classical Finsler metric, the Fermat metric of the standard
stationary spacetime, and the corresponding results can be checked in [23].
Proposition 3.15. Let Σ be the Fermat structure associated with an SSTK split-
ting. Then the conic Finsler metric F and the Lorentzian Finsler metric Fl asso-
ciated with Σ are those determined in Proposition 3.12.
Proof. Taking into account the definition of the Fermat structure, if (τ, v) ∈ R×T M
is a future-pointing lightlike vector, then τ > 0 and v/τ ∈ Σx . So, it is enough to
use Proposition 3.12 with τ = 1 (notice that the expressions for the conic pseudo-
Finsler metrics F and Fl in (30) and (32) are invariant under the conformal change
(g0 , ω, Λ) 7→ (Ωg0 , Ωω, ΩΛ), Ω : M → (0, +∞)).                                   
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                          41


   The equivalences in Theorem 3.10 plus Propositions 2.57, 3.6 and 3.15 extend
the well-known ones existing between Randers, Zermelo and stationary metrics,
[13, Proposition 3.1], and they are summarized in Fig. 6.

The case of past-pointing causal vectors and its relation with the reverse wind
Finslerian structure (see Fig. 7) can be summarized as follows. Recall that in
Theorem 3.10, one assumes implicitly that −∇t is future-pointing (Convention 3.5).
If we consider an SSTK splitting determined by the triple (g0 , ω, Λ) in (26), and
construct a new spacetime just reversing the time-orientation, the transformation
t 7→ −t would allow one to express this second spacetime as an SSTK with data
(g0 , −ω, Λ). Clearly, the Fermat structure of the latter will be the reverse Σ̃ of the
original one. Then, the possibilities analogous to Corollary 3.13 for lightlike vectors
can be summarized as follows.
Corollary 3.16 (Past lightlike vectors and time reversal). Let (t0 , x0 ) ∈ R × M
and v ∈ Tx0 M \ {0}. Then, the following cases can occur:
(a) Case Λ(x0 ) > 0. The tangent at (t0 , x0 ) vector (−F (−v), v) (recall F̃ (v) =
    F (−v)) is a past-pointing lightlike vector; moreover, all past-pointing lightlike
    vectors in R × Tx0 M can be written in this way.
(b) Case Λ(x0 ) = 0. When v ∈ −Ax0 , the vector (−F (−v), v), is lightlike and
    past-pointing; moreover, all past-pointing lighlike vectors can be written either
    in this way or as (−τ, v) with τ > 0.
(c) Case Λ(x0 ) < 0. One of the following exclusive alternatives occurs:
    (c1) v ∈ −Ax0 . Then, there are exactly two past-pointing lightlike vectors
          (−F (−v), v), (−Fl (−v), v), −Fl (−v) < −F (−v), in R × Tx0 M (recall that
          F (−v) = F̃ (v) and, formally, Fl (−v) = F̃l (v) = −F frev (−v) = −F (v))
          that project onto v.
    (c2) v belongs to −((AE )x0 \ Ax0 ). Then, there is exactly one past-pointing
          lightlike vector in R × Tx0 M , namely, (−F (−v), v) (F (−v) = Fl (−v))
          that projects onto v.
    (c3) v does not belong to −(AE )x0 . Then, no past-pointing lightlike vector in
          R × M projects onto v.
Proof. A vector (−τ, v) is past-pointing and lightlike if and only if τ > 0 and (τ, −v)
is future-pointing and lightlike. So, one should apply Corollary 3.13 (or the last
part of Proposition 3.12) replacing v with −v. This change of sign transforms the
assertions on F and Fl in assertions on their reverse metrics F̃ and F̃l defined on
Ã = −A and Ãl = −Al (and extendible to ÃE = −AE ) as asserted in Proposi-
tion 2.18; moreover, notice that the metric F determines F̃ , which can be used
to give expressions only in terms of F (instead of the quadruple F, Fl , F̃ , F̃l , see
Proposition 2.60 and Remark 2.61).                                                   
   Finally, using the SSTK viewpoint, we will characterize the vectors in the in-
dicatrix of Σ that correspond to abnormal geodesics. Recall that, at each point
of strong wind, the indicatrices SFm−1 and SFm−1
                                              l
                                                 of F and Fl cover all Σ but the
abnormal ones (see Fig. 8).
Proposition 3.17 (The common boundary of the indicatrices of F and Fl on Ml ).
Let Σ be a wind Riemannian structure with associated triple (g0 , ω, Λ) and x0 ∈ M
such that Λ(x0 ) < 0. The intersection S0m−2 between the indicatrix Σx0 and the
42                E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ




        Figure 6. The equivalence between SSTK splittings, wind Rie-
        mannian and Zermelo structures
boundary of the conic domain (Al )x0 is characterized by the equations:
         g0 (v, v) = −Λ(x0 ),         ω(v) = Λ(x0 ),          v ∈ Tx0 M,
                 WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                         43




        Figure 7. The shaded region represents, in the case where
        Λ(x0 ) < 0, all the future-pointing timelike vectors (τ, v), for
        v ∈ Ax0 . The lightlike vectors (F (v), v) and (Fl (v), v) yield the
        boundary of such a region.


which define a (m − 2)-dimensional sphere obtained as the transversal intersection
of a round g0 -sphere and a hyperplane.
Proof. The boundary of (Al )x0 in T M \ 0 is given by the vectors v ∈ Tx0 M such
that the expressions for F and Fl agree (i.e. the square root in (30) and (32)
vanishes) and −ω(v) > 0. Moreover, a tangent vector v belongs to the indicatrix iff
the vector (1, v) ∈ R × Tx0 M in the associated SSTK splitting is lightlike (Fig. 8).
These two conditions yield:
         Λ(x0 )g0 (v, v) + ω(v)2 = 0,          g0 (v, v) + 2ω(v) − Λ(x0 ) = 0
which are equivalent to the required equations. Transversality holds because of the
Lorentzian restriction (27).                                                     


3.4. Projection on ∂t⊥ and interpretation of Al , Ãl . The fact that the radicand
in the expressions of F and Fl (formulas (30) and (32)) may not be automatically
positive has been interpreted above (possibilities (c2) and (c3) in Corollaries 3.13
and 3.16). Let us go a step further by analysing the metric tensor in this radicand,
that is,
                                 h := Λg0 + ω ⊗ ω,                              (34)
on M . The metric h admits the following interpretation on the open subset MΛ6=0 =
{x ∈ M : Λ 6= 0} where ∂t is not lightlike.
Proposition 3.18. Let p⊥   R : R × T MΛ6=0 → R × T MΛ6=0 the natural projection on
the bundle ∂t⊥ , g-orthogonal to ∂t . Then, for any v ∈ Tx M, x ∈ MΛ6=0 :
                          h(v, v) = Λg(p⊥          ⊥
                                        R (0, v), pR (0, v)).

Moreover, h(v, v)/Λ2 = (F + F frev )2 (v)/4 and, thus, h/Λ2 is conformally invariant.
44                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ




        Figure 8. The intersection between the future-pointing light cone
        at (t0 , x0 ) and the slice {1} × Tx0 M projects onto the wind Fins-
        lerian structure Σx0 = SFm−1 ∪ S0m−2 ∪ SFm−1l
                                                        , (m = 2)

Proof. For the first assertion, apply g to p⊥R (0, v) = (ω(v)/Λ, v). For the last one,
use (30) and (32) (or (33)) and recall that Fermat metrics are conformally invariant,
Theorem 3.10.                                                                       
   That is, the metric h on M can be identified with a metric conformal to the
original one g restricted to ∂t⊥ , being the conformal factor Λ such that h makes
sense even in the limit case when ∂t is lightlike. Recall that Λ and ω satisfy (27),
then we immediately get:
Corollary 3.19. The metric h on M is Riemannian when Λ > 0, degenerate when
Λ = 0 and it has coindex 1 (i.e., −h is Lorentzian) when Λ < 0.
   In the region Ml where Λ < 0, the expressions of F and Fl (resp. F̃ and F̃l ) have
been well-defined on all AE (resp. ÃE = −AE ) in Convention 2.19. Then, one has
directly the following characterizations of the lightlike vectors for −h on Ml .
Proposition 3.20. For any v ∈ T Ml \ 0, the following properties are equivalent:
   (i) h(v, v) = 0, i.e., v is lightlike for the Lorentzian metric −h.
   (ii) v belongs to the boundary of AE ∪ ÃE in T Ml \ 0,
   (iii) either v ∈ AE and F (v) = Fl (v) or v ∈ ÃE and F̃ (v) = F̃l (v), and
   (iv) either v ∈ AE and F (v) = − g0ω(v) (v,v)
                                                 or v ∈ ÃE and F̃ (v) = g0ω(v)
                                                                            (v,v)
                                                                                  .
   Consistently, the Lorentzian metric −h is time-oriented so that a lightlike vector
v for −h will be defined as future-pointing if it belongs to the boundary of AE .
   Therefore, Al (resp. Ãl ) can be interpreted as the set of all the future-pointing
(resp. past-pointing) timelike vectors for −h; analogously, AE (resp. ÃE ) is the set
of all the future-pointing (resp. past-pointing) causal vectors.
   The following property of lightlike geodesics of (R × M, g) in terms of h will be
useful later. Notice first that if γ = (ζ, σ) is a lightlike curve in (R × M, g) then
                                      
                                        ω(pσ̇)                        if Λ = 0
          g(γ̇, ∂t ) = −Λζ̇ + ω(σ̇) =                                               (35)
                                        ∓ Λg0 (σ̇, σ̇) + ω(σ̇)2       if Λ 6= 0,
(take into account (33)). In particular, the lightlike vectors for −h in the region Ml
can be interpreted as the projection of lightlike vectors of the spacetime orthogonal
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                              45


to ∂t , in addition to the characterizations in Proposition 3.20. Now, recall that if
γ is a geodesic of (R × M, g), then g(γ̇, ∂t ) is constant along γ (as ∂t is Killing).
Lemma 3.21. For any lightlike geodesic γ = (ζ, σ) of (R × M, g), the constant
C = g(γ̇, ∂t ) satisfies C 2 = h(σ̇, σ̇). Moreover, if C = 0 either (i) σ is constant,
σ ≡ x0 ∈ M , and the integral curve of K that projects onto x0 is a lightlike
pregeodesic (that is, dΛ vanishes on the kernel of ωx0 ) or (ii) σ remains in the
closure M̄l of Ml (in particular, if Ml = ∅ this case cannot hold), σ can reach the
boundary ∂Ml only at isolated points (where the g0 -acceleration Dg0 σ̇/ds does not
vanish) and, whenever σ remains in Ml (−h is Lorentzian on σ), σ is a lightlike
geodesic of h/Λ.
                                                                                   p
Proof. For the first assertion, recall that the expression (35) is equal to h(σ̇, σ̇)
up to a sign, i.e. h(σ̇, σ̇) = C 2 .
    For the last assertion, if σ is constantly equal to x0 , then γ can be a geodesic if
and only if the corresponding orbit of ∂t can be reparametrized as a geodesic. This
happens if and only if the gradient ∇g Λ of Λ with respect to the metric g, when
projected on T M by using the differential of π : R × M → M , is 0. In fact, since
for a Killing vector field K, ∇g (g(K, K)) = −2∇K K, an orbit γ(t) = (t, x0) of ∂t is
a pregeodesic if and only if there exists a function λ such that ∇g g(∂t , ∂t ) |(t,x0 ) =
λ(t)∂t |(t,x0 ) , for all t ∈ R. Recalling that −g(∂t , ∂t )(t, x0 ) = Λ(x0 ), for all t ∈ R,
and that ωx0 is the one-form on M g0 -equivalent to the g-orthogonal projection of
∂t on T M , this equation is equivalent to the condition that dΛ(x0 ) is proportional
to ωx0 , as required.
    Finally, observe that a lightlike geodesic γ = (ζ, σ) with σ non-constant can have
C = 0 only in M̄l and, if there exists some s0 such that σ(s0 ) := x0 ∈ ∂Ml , then:
(i) σ̇(s0 ) = 0 (otherwise, γ cannot be both, lightlike and orthogonal to ∂t ), (ii) dΛx0
cannot be proportional to ωx0 (otherwise, by uniqueness of geodesics γ would be a
reparametrization of an integral curve of ∂t ), and (iii) (Dg0 σ̇/ds)) (s0 ) 6= 0. To see
this, observe that γ is a geodesic of (R × M, g) if and only if
                         D g0                           1
                              σ̇ = −ζ̈ ω ] + ζ̇ Ω̂(σ̇) − ζ̇ 2 ∇g0 Λ,
                          ds                            2
                         ω(σ̇) − Λ ζ̇ = const.
where Dg0 /ds and ∇g0 are respectively the covariant derivative of (M, g0 ) along σ
and the gradient with respect to g0 , ω ] is the vector field g0 -equivalent to ω and
g0 (w, Ω̂(v)) = dω(v, w) for every v, w ∈ T M . The above equations can be obtained
for example using that the geodesics are the critical points of the energy functional
(or using the explicit     formulas (13) and (14) in [38], which are valid for arbitrary
                  g0
Λ). Then Dds σ̇ (s0 ) 6= 0 because otherwise ζ̈(s0 ) ωx] 0 = − 21 ζ̇ 2 (s0 ) ∇g0 Λ(x0 ). As
                      

ζ̇ 2 (s0 ) 6= 0, because γ is lightlike, we conclude that σ is constant by (i). Now, in the
region Ml , the map π : (R × Ml , g) → (Ml , h/Λ) is a semi-Riemannian submersion
(see Proposition 3.18) and therefore, lightlike geodesics orthogonal to the fibers
project into (and are all the lifts of) lightlike geodesics of (Ml , h/Λ).               

   Stationary spacetimes have been studied in many mathematically oriented pa-
pers, see e.g. [39, 66, 50, 38, 21, 42, 23, 18], while the case Λ ≡ 0, which includes
global Brinkmann decompositions [14], has been considered recently in [6], where
the authors study geodesic connectedness.
46                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


3.5. Fundamental tensors for F, Fl . Recall that when Λ > 0, F is a Randers
metric with a well-known positive definite fundamental tensor (see for example [51,
Corollary 4.17]) and, when Λ = 0, then F is a Kropina metric with also a positive-
definite fundamental tensor (see [51, Corollary 4.12]). Next, we focus on the region
Λ < 0 and the domain Al of T M .
    The fundamental tensors of F and Fl can be computed explicitly from the ex-
pressions (30) and (32) by taking into account that these metrics can be regarded
as canonical (F0 , ω)-ones, i.e. they can be written as F0 · φ(ω/F0 ) being F0 the root
of g0 and
                                               1
                                 φ(z) =       √         ,
                                         −z ± z 2 + Λ
see [51, §4.2.1]. In any case, a simplified computation can be accomplished. In fact,
it is enough to study the fundamental tensor of the Randers type metrics:
                                p
                       F  = − h̃ + β       with h̃ = β ⊗ β − ḡ0 ,
where β is the one-form ω/Λ, and ḡ0 the Riemannian metric g0 /|Λ|, so that h̃ is
Lorentzian with coindex 1 and β(v) > 0 on Al . The value of  is 1 for F and −1
for Fl .
Proposition 3.22. Let G ,  = ±1, be the fundamental tensor of F  , i.e., of F for
 = 1 and Fl for  = −1. Then, with the above notation for h̃ and β:
                                                                        2
         Gv (w, w) = −F  (ṽ) h̃(w, w) − h̃(ṽ, w)2 + −h̃(ṽ, w) + β(w)     (36)
                                                q
for all v ∈ Al and w ∈ Tx0 M , where ṽ = v/ h̃(v, v) on Al .
Proof. It is enough to observe that [51, Prop. 4.10], with φ(s) = − + s, holds also
in this case.                                                                     
Remark 3.23. Observe that (36) can be used to prove directly that F and Fl
are, respectively, conic Finsler and Lorentzian Finsler in their domains A and Al .
Focusing on Al , clearly Gv (v, v) = F  (v)2 > 0; therefore, the space of the vectors
u ∈ Tx0 M which are Gv -orthogonal to v is transversal to v and has dimension
m − 1. Moreover, setting v ∈ Al :
                                                                                 
                                                                    ḡ0 (ṽ, u)
       Gv (v, u) = 0 ⇔ β(u) = h̃(ṽ, u)               ⇔ β(u) = −                   .
                                                                    1 − β(ṽ)
By using repeatedly this equivalence, if u is Gv -orthogonal to v, (36) becomes:
                                                        
            Gv (u, u) = −F  (ṽ) h̃(u, u) − h̃(ṽ, u)2 = F  (ṽ)ḡ0 (u, u),
and the result follows as F  (ṽ) > 0.

            4. The case of causal K: Randers-Kropina metrics
   Next, we focus on the case of an SSTK splitting when K is causal (i.e., Λ ≥ 0),
so that its Fermat structure becomes a Randers-Kropina metric F according to
Definition 2.59. In particular, Al = ∅, and Ax = Tx M \ {0} iff Λ(x) > 0 while Ax is
an open half-space in Tx M iff Λ(x) = 0 (recall Definition 2.11 and Proposition 3.12).
Therefore, Fl and AE will not be used and we will consider F -admissibility rather
than notions as wind curves —the wind balls will be also treated in a way similar
to the classical Finslerian one. Our aim is to show that, on the one hand, F can be
                     WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                    47


used to describe the causality of the spacetime (R × M, g) and, on the other hand,
the known properties on causality of spacetimes allow us to obtain properties of
the associated Finslerian separation dF : M × M → [0, +∞].
4.1. Characterization of the chronological relation. Following [51, Defini-
tions 3.6, 3.8], for any conic pseudo-Finsler metric F : A ⊆ T M → [0, +∞) on M
and any x, y ∈ M , one says that x F -precedes y, written x ≺ y, if there is an
F -admissible curve from x to y. Here, a curve is said F -admissible consistently
with Definition 2.20, i.e., if its velocity lies in the domain A of F , so that x ≺ y
iff ΩAx,y 6= ∅. We recall that the Finslerian separation dF (Definition 2.24) is non-
negative and satisfies a triangle inequality, namely, d(x, z) ≤ d(x, y) + d(y, z) for all
x, y, z ∈ M , but it is non-symmetric and dF (x, x) can be positive [51, Proposition
3.9]; in the case that a standard Finsler metric is regarded as the conic Finsler
metric of a wind Finslerian structure Σ, the balls BF+ (x, r) and BF− (x, r) introduced
                                                   +             −
in Definition 2.24 agree with the wind balls BΣ      (x, r) and BΣ (x, r) of Σ (see Defi-
nition 2.26 and notice that Fl = +∞ in this case). Both of them are open subsets
and constitute a basis for the topology of M in the standard Finsler case and these
properties are generalizable to the wind Finslerian case (recall Proposition 2.25).
However, the closures B̄F± (x, r) of these balls cannot be obtained merely replacing
the strict equalities by non-strict ones (see Corollary 4.8 below).
    Now, let us focus on the F -separation dF of the conic Finsler metric F asso-
ciated with an SSTK splitting with K causal. The chronological relation can be
characterized in a simple way.
Proposition 4.1. For any SSTK splitting with causal K:
                      (t0 , x0 )  (t1 , x1 )   ⇔     dF (x0 , x1 ) < t1 − t0 ,
for every x0 , x1 ∈ M and t0 , t1 ∈ R. Therefore:
                          I + (t0 , x0 ) = {(t, y) : dF (x0 , y) < t − t0 },
                                                                                                (37)
                          I − (t0 , x0 ) = {(t, y) : dF (y, x0 ) < t0 − t}.
Equivalently, considering dF -forward and backward balls
 I + (t0 , x0 ) = ∪s>0 {t0 + s} × BF+ (x0 , s),     I − (t0 , x0 ) = ∪s>0 {t0 − s} × BF− (x0 , s).
Proof. Recall that a vector (τ, v) ∈ R × T M is timelike and future-pointing if and
only if τ > F (v) (see Corollary 3.13 cases (a) and (b)).
    If (t0 , x0 )  (t1 , x1 ), then there exists a future-pointing timelike curve γ =
(t, σ) : [0, 1] → R × M from (t0 , x0 ) to (t1 , x1 ) such that ṫ > F (ẋ) and, perturbing
the curve when needed, we can assume that ẋ(s) 6= 0 for every s ∈ [0, 1]6 Then by
integration, we get t1 − t0 > `F (σ), i.e. dF (x0 , x1 ) < t1 − t0 .
    Conversely, if dF (x0 , x1 ) < t1 − t0 , choose an F -admissible curve σ : [0, 1] → M
from x0 to x1 such that dF (x0 , x1 ) ≤ `F (σ) < t1 − t0 . Then the curve (t, σ) :
[0, 1] → R × M , where t(s) = t0 + `F (σ|[0,s] ) + εs and ε = t1 − t0 − `F (σ), is a
timelike future-pointing curve from (t0 , x0 ) to (t1 , x1 ).
    The remainder is then straightforward.                                               
    6This is necessary as we are assuming here that the speed of an F -admissible curve does not
vanish (this is somewhat different to our approach in [23]). However, it is easy to check when the
dimension m + 1 of the spacetime is ≥ 3 that σ can be chosen with always non-vanishing speed
(for ex., see the proof of [37, Prop. 3.2])). For the case m = 1, this is obvious as piecewise smooth
curves can be used here.
48                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


4.2. Continuity of the Finslerian separation for Randers-Kropina spaces.
Let us start with a general result.
Proposition 4.2. The F -separation associated with any conic pseudo-Finsler met-
ric F is upper semi-continuous, i.e., if xn → x, yn → y, then
                            lim sup dF (xn , yn ) ≤ dF (x, y).
                               n
In particular, if x ≺ y, then xn ≺ yn for large n.
Proof. Assume that dF (x, y) < +∞ and, by contradiction,
                             dF (xn , yn ) > dF (x, y) + 3ε
for some ε > 0 and for some subsequences still denoted by xn and yn . Choose
a curve γ from x to y with `F (γ) < dF (x, y) + ε and choose x̄, ȳ on γ such that
x ∈ BF− (x̄, ε) and y ∈ BF+ (ȳ, ε). By [51, Prop. 3.9] these two balls are open and so,
for large n, they contain all xn and yn . So, the curve ρ obtained by concatenating
an F -admissible curve of length smaller than ε from xn to x̄ with the piece of γ
from x̄ to ȳ and with another F -admissible curve of length smaller than ε from ȳ
to yn yields the required contradiction dF (xn , yn ) < dF (x, y) + 3ε.               
   Although lower semi-continuity may not hold even in the conic Finsler case (and
even with points x, y at a finite F -separation, see [51, Example 3.18]), we will check
that this semi-continuity does hold in the Randers-Kropina case.
   Notice first the following straightforward consequence of Proposition 4.1.
Proposition 4.3. For any SSTK splitting with causal K, the function
        τF : M × M → [0, +∞],          τF (x, y) := inf{t ∈ R : (0, x)  (t, y)}
is equal to the F -separation function dF .
   The function τF will be called the (future) arrival time function and its definition
on M instead of R × M uses implicitly the invariance of the metric with t.
   Next, we will prove the lower semi-continuity of dF by using results of spacetimes
(which, in particular, extend those in [78]). To this aim, we will use a well-known
result on limit curves. The latter are defined as follows (see [8, Definition 3.28]).
Definition 4.4. A curve γ in a spacetime (L, g) is a limit curve of a sequence of
curves {γk }, if there exists a subsequence {γm } such that for all p in the image of
γ, any neighborhood of p intersects all but a finite number of the curves in {γm }.
   A standard result says that any sequence {γk } of causal, future-pointing, future-
inextendible causal curves whose images have an accumulation point p admits a
limit curve through p which is also causal, future-pointing and future-inextendible
(see [8, Proposition 3.31]; the same holds replacing “future” with “past” in the
previous statement). Let us remark that a limit curve is not necessarily piecewise
smooth, but causal continuous (for the definition of a causal continuous curve see
the beginning of §3.2 in [8]). Moreover, observe that to be causal continuous on
an interval I is equivalent to be locally absolutely continuous with future-pointing
causal derivative a. e. in I (see [17, Theorem A.1]).
Theorem 4.5. The F -separation dF : M × M → [0, +∞] associated with any
Randers-Kropina metric is continuous away from the diagonal D = {(x, x) : x ∈
M} ⊂ M × M.
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                            49


Proof. From Proposition 4.3 and Proposition 4.2, it is enough to prove the lower
semi-continuity of τF for the corresponding SSTK splitting.
   Let {xn } and {yn } be converging sequences, xn → x, yn → y 6= x, and assume
by contradiction that there exist subsequences, denoted again by {xn }, {yn }, such
that {τF (xn , yn )} converges with
                           T0 := lim τF (xn , yn ) < τF (x, y).
                                   n

Choose T1 ∈ (T0 , τF (x, y)), and define qn := (T1 , yn ), pn := ((T1 − T0 )/2, xn ).
Each line lyn = {(s, yn ) : s ∈ R} is causal and, since τF (xn , yn ) is finite for large
n, necessarily pn  qn for n big enough (recall ly 6= lx and Remark 3.1). Thus,
we can take a sequence of past-pointing timelike curves {γn } connecting each qn
with pn . Moreover, these curves are assumed to be inextendible to the past, by
prolonging them with the lines lxn . As {qn } → q∞ := (T1 , y), the sequence {γn }
admits a causal, past-inextendible and past-pointing limit curve γ starting at q∞ .
Necessarily, γ must leave ly at some point Q; otherwise, as γ is inextendible, it
must run all (t, q∞ ) when t → −∞ (but this is absurd because the points in γ
lie in the closure of the set of images of all γn , and the piece of such curves with
t ◦ γn ≤ (T1 − T0 )/2 lie in lxn , which accumulate at lx 6= ly ). Notice also that
if γ arrived at the limit p∞ := ((T1 − T0 )/2, x) of {pn }, a contradiction with the
definition of τF (x, y) would be obtained. Now, choose T2 ∈ (T1 , τF (x, y)) and any
point Q0 on γ away from ly ; necessarily Q0 < Q < (T2 , y) and, then, Q0  (T2 , y)
(recall Remark 3.1). But Q0 lies in the closure of the images of the set of all γn
and, thus, up to a subsequence, some point Q0n on each γn satisfies Q0n  (T2 , y)
for large n. Therefore, we can assume
                                 pn ( Q0n )  (T2 , y),
and choose a future-inextendible timelike curve αn from pn to (T2 , y) and equal to
ly beyond this point. Consider the limit curve α of the sequence αn departing from
p∞ . Reasoning as above, α leaves lx at some point, and any point Q00 on α away
from lx satisfies p = (0, x)  Q00 . Choose a point Q00n , in a curve αn , close enough
to Q00 such that p  Q00n . This concludes that
                                  p  Q00n  (T2 , y),
in contradiction with the definition of τF (x, y).                                     
   The necessity of the exception on the diagonal D in the previous theorem comes
from the following fact.
Proposition 4.6. The F -separation dF associated with a Randers-Kropina metric
is discontinuous at (x0 , x0 ) if dF (x0 , x0 ) > 0. Moreover,
     (i) the property dF (x0 , x0 ) > 0 occurs if there exists a neighborhood U of x0
         such that no admissible loop contained in U exists, i.e. y 6≺U y, for all
         y ∈ U ; in particular for any Kropina metric F = α2 /β such that the kernel
         of β is locally integrable, i.e. β ∧ dβ = 0;
    (ii) for any Kropina norm on a vector space, dF (x, x) = ∞ for all x ∈ V .
Proof. For the first assertion, choosing any F -admissible curve γ starting at x, one
constructs trivially a sequence {xn }, xn → x of points on γ with dF (x, xn ) → 0.
For (i), notice that any F -admissible loop starting at x (and leaving necessarily
U ) will have a length greater than some ε > 0; to check this, notice that one can
50                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


always obtain a Finsler metric F0 in any compact neighborhood of x such that
F0 is smaller than 1 on the indicatrix of F . In the Kropina case, the assumption
β ∧ dβ = 0 implies that β|U = Ωdf on a small neighborhood U of x0 , for a positive
function Ω and f with no critical points on U (as any Kropina metric is defined
only on the open region of the manifold M where β is nowhere vanishing). So f is
strictly increasing on any admissible curve on U (recall that β(v) > 0 for v ∈ A);
thus, y 6≺U y for all y ∈ U . Finally in the case of a Kropina norm, being β a
constant one-form, β = df on V and therefore dF (x, x) = ∞ for all x ∈ V .      

Remark 4.7. The previous proposition shows that explicit examples of discontin-
uous dF can be constructed easily. It also shows that the possible discontinuity
on the diagonal would not be removed if dF (x, x) were redefined as 0 (namely, re-
garding τF (x, y) as the infimum of the set {t ∈ R : (0, x) ≤ (t, y)} and defining
dF (x, y) as the new τF (x, y)). On the other hand, it is trivial to check that for any
Randers-Kropina metric F , if K is timelike at x ∈ M then dF (x, x) = 0 and dF is
continuous at (x, x).
   Finally notice the discontinuity of dF at the diagonal yields the following subtlety
(consistent with Definition 2.26 and Proposition 2.33).
Corollary 4.8. The closed forward (resp. backward) dF -balls, defined as the clo-
sures of the corresponding open balls, satisfy, for r > 0:
                       B̄F+ (x, r) = {y ∈ M : dF (x, y) ≤ r} ∪ {x}

                  (resp. B̄F− (x, r) = {y ∈ M : dF (y, x) ≤ r} ∪ {x}).
Proof. The proof of the first assertion in the previous proposition shows that {x}
belongs to the closure of the ball. So, just apply the continuity of dF outside the
diagonal.                                                                        

4.3. Ladder of causality and properties for Randers-Kropina separation.
Next, we can go further into the causal structure of our class of spacetimes. The
following relation between the position of the spacetime in the causal ladder and
the properties of the Randers-Kropina metric appears.
Theorem 4.9. Consider an SSTK splitting (R × M, g) as in (26) with K causal
and associated Randers-Kropina metric F on M . Then, (R × M, g) is causally
continuous, and
  (i) the following assertions are equivalent:
         (i1) (R × M, g) is causally simple i.e., it is causal (which means that no
      closed smooth causal curve exists) and the sets J + (p), J − (p) are closed for
      all p ∈ R × M ).
         (i2) (M, F ) is convex, in the sense that for every x, y ∈ M , x 6= y, with
      dF (x, y) < +∞, there exists a geodesic γ from x to y such that `F (γ) =
      dF (x, y).
         (i3) J + (p) is closed for all p ∈ R × M .
         (i4) J − (p) is closed for all p ∈ R × M .
 (ii) (R × M, g) is globally hyperbolic (i.e. it is causal and all the intersections
      J + (p) ∩ J − (q) are compact) if and only if B̄F+ (x, r1 ) ∩ B̄F− (y, r2 ) is compact
      (or empty) for every x, y ∈ M and r1 , r2 > 0.
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             51


(iii) The following assertions are equivalent:
         (iii1) A slice St = {(t, x) : x ∈ R × M } (and, then all the slices) is a space-
      like Cauchy hypersurface i.e., it is crossed exactly once by any inextendible
      timelike curve (and, then, also by any causal one).
         (iii2) the closures B̄F+ (x, r), B̄F− (x, r) are compact for all r > 0 and x ∈ M .
         (iii3) F is forward and backward geodesically complete.

Proof. First observe that, as t : R × M → R, (t, x) 7→ t, is a temporal function,
then (R × M, g) is stably causal and, in particular, distinguishing (for the elements
of causality to be used here, see [71] or [8, 12]). So, to prove causal continuity, it is
enough to show that (R × M, g) is future and past reflecting (see for example [71,
Definition 3.59, Lemma 3.46] or [8, Theorem 3.25, Proposition 3.2]). Let us see that
it is past reflecting (the other case is analogous), that is, I + (p) ⊃ I + (q) implies
I − (p) ⊂ I − (q) for any p = (t0 , x) and q = (t1 , y). We can assume x 6= y (otherwise
it is obvious), and the inclusion I + (p) ⊃ I + (q) implies that dF (x, y) ≤ t1 − t0 . This
is a consequence of the continuity of dF away from D proven in Theorem 4.5. In
fact, consider a sequence {qn = (t1 + εn , yn )} contained in I + (q) and converging
to q so that εn & 0, yn → y. By (37), dF (x, yn ) < (t1 − t0 ) + εn , and, by the
continuity of dF , the required inequality holds. But dF (x, y) ≤ t1 − t0 implies
directly I − (p) ⊂ I − (q) (use again (37) and the triangle inequality for dF ), as
required.
    Equivalences in (i) and (ii) can be proved formally as in the stationary case
[23]. The proof of the equivalences in (iii) has some differences with respect to
the stationary case due to the lack of a Hopf-Rinow theorem for Randers-Kropina
metrics. The reader can check, however, that both, the equivalence between (iii1)
and (iii3), and the implications (iii1) ⇒ (iii2) ⇒ (iii3) hold by means of simple
modifications of the arguments in [23, Theorems 4.3 and 4.4]. In any case, a
full proof can be obtained as a particular case of the most general Theorem 5.9
below.                                                                                   


   As a straightforward consequence of Theorem 4.9 and the implications from
causality theory (iii1) ⇒ global hyperbolicity ⇒ (i1), one has the following version
of Hopf-Rinow theorem.

Corollary 4.10. For any Randers-Kropina metric F on a manifold M , the forward
(resp. backward) geodesic completeness of dF is equivalent to the compactness of
the forward closed balls B̄F+ (x, r) (resp. backward closed balls B̄F− (x, r)) for every
x ∈ M, r > 0. Moreover, any of these properties implies the compactness of the
intersection between any pair of forward and backward closed balls. Finally, the last
property implies the convexity of (M, F ), in the sense of Theorem 4.9.

Example 4.11. The so-called Brinkmann spaces are defined by the existence of a
complete parallel lightlike vector field K, and they include many physical examples
of interest, as wave-type spacetimes (plane waves, pp-waves etc.); a detailed study
of these spaces is carried out in [14]. Under very general hypotheses, they are
strongly causal [37] and become an SSTK [33, Th. V.11]; so, they determine a
Kropina metric where all the previous results are applicable. We mention that they
have been considered recently in [6], where their geodesic connectedness is studied.
52                     E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


     5. The case of arbitrary K: general wind Riemannian structures
   In this section we consider the general case of a Killing vector field K with no
restriction on its pointwise causal character.
5.1. Causal futures and lightlike geodesics. For the study of the causality of
a general SSTK splitting, we will use its Fermat structure Σ in Definition 3.9 and
the notation for causal elements in Section 3.1.
   We start with a characterization of the chronological relation which generalizes
the one obtained in Proposition 4.1 when K is causal; notice that there is now no
natural Finslerian separation that fully describes the causal properties of (R ×
M, g). This problem will be circumvented by means of a description of the causal
futures and pasts, which makes apparent an interpretation of the c-balls. Recall
that the time coordinate of the SSTK splitting is a temporal function and every
causal curve can be parametrized with the time.
Proposition 5.1. Let (R × M, g) be an SSTK splitting. Then:
                                                             +
                           I + (t0 , x0 ) = ∪s>0 {t0 + s} × BΣ (x0 , s),
                                                             −
                           I − (t0 , x0 ) = ∪s>0 {t0 − s} × BΣ (x0 , s),
                                                              +
                           J + (t0 , x0 ) = ∪s≥0 {t0 + s} × B̂Σ (x0 , s),
                                                              −
                           J − (t0 , x0 ) = ∪s≥0 {t0 − s} × B̂Σ (x0 , s).
Proof. Taking into account Corollary 3.13 and Convention 2.19, a vector (τ, v) ∈
R × (T M \ 0) with τ > 0 is causal and future-pointing if and only if v ∈ AE ∪ A \ 0
and
                                    F (v) ≤ τ ≤ Fl (v);                             (38)
moreover, it is timelike and future-pointing if and only if both inequalities hold
strictly in (38) (and, thus, v ∈ A). Accordingly, a t-parametrized piecewise smooth
curve (t, x) : [t0 , t1 ] → R × M is causal (resp. timelike) and future-pointing if and
only if x is Σ-admissible and
                                   F (ẋ(t)) ≤ ṫ ≡ 1 ≤ Fl (ẋ(t))                                 (39)
(resp. x is F -admissible and
                                  F (ẋ(t)) < ṫ ≡ 1 < Fl (ẋ(t)))                                 (40)
thus, in particular, x is a wind curve. Now, reasoning for the future and the
inclusions ⊂, observe that if (t1 , x1 ) ∈ J + (t0 , x0 ), then there exists a future-pointing
causal curve γ = (t, x) joining (t0 , x0 ) and (t1 , x1 ), with x being Σ-admissible
(recall footnote 6) 7. So, integrating in (39) one has: if (t1 , x1 ) ∈ J + (t0 , x0 ) then
        +                                                                    +
x1 ∈ B̂Σ  (x0 , t1 − t0 ) (resp. if (t1 , x1 ) ∈ I + (t0 , x0 ), then x1 ∈ BΣ  (x0 , t1 − t0 )), as
required.
                                                                          +
   For the converse ⊃, in the case J + , choose any x1 ∈ B̂Σ                (x0 , s) and a wind
curve x : [0, s] → M from x0 to x1 such that `F (x) ≤ s ≤ `Fl (x) (which exists
by definition of B̂Σ (x0 , s)). From (39), the curve [t0 , t0 + s] 3 t 7→ (t, x(t − t0 ))
is the required causal curve from (t0 , x0 ) to (t0 + s, x1 ). Moreover, to check the
                                                   +
inclusion ⊃ for I + , notice that if x1 ∈ BΣ          (x0 , s) then the inequalities (39) hold
strictly at some point. If both of them hold at some point t̄, then the causal curve
    7In the particular case when x = x , ẋ may be forced to vanish when the vertical line on x
                                   0     1                                                             0
                                                                             +
is a lightlike pregeodesic but then Λ(x0 ) = 0 (i.e. 0x0 ∈ Σx0 ), and x0 ∈ B̂Σ (x0 , r), for all r ≥ 0,
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                  53


becomes timelike at (t̄, x(t̄ − t0 )) —so that the points (t0 , x0 ) and (t0 + s, x1 ) can
be connected by means of a timelike curve, see for example [72, Proposition 10.46].
Otherwise, there must exist two disjoint intervals [t̄1 , t̄2 ], [t̄3 , t̄4 ] ⊂]0, s] such that
in [t̄1 , t̄2 ] does hold the second strict inequality and in [t̄3 , t̄4 ] it holds the first one.
Assume that t̄2 < t̄3 (the other case is analogous) and define the function
                              
                              
                               0                                  0 ≤ µ ≤ t̄1
                              
                              ε(µ − t̄1 )                         t̄1 ≤ µ ≤ t̄2
                              
                              
                              
                      ρ(µ) = ε(t̄2 − t̄1 )                       t̄2 ≤ µ ≤ t̄3
                                              t̄2 −t̄1
                              
                              
                              
                              
                               ε t̄2 − t̄1 + t̄4 −t̄3 (t̄3 − µ)   t̄3 ≤ µ ≤ t̄4
                              
                                0                                  t̄4 ≤ µ ≤ s
                              

If ε > 0 is small enough, the curve [0, s] 3 µ 7→ (µ + ρ(µ), x(µ)) ∈ R × M is a causal
curve from (t0 , x0 ) to (t0 + s, x1 ) which is timelike in some point. Then applying
again [72, Proposition 10.46] we conclude.                                          
   We recall that two points p and q in a spacetime are said horismotically related if
q ∈ J + (p)\I + (p). We will give a characterization of these points after the following
lemma.
Lemma 5.2. Let I ⊂ R be an interval and ρ : I → R × M be a lightlike future-
pointing pregeodesic of an SSTK splitting (R×M, g). Then ρ can be reparametrized
as s 7→ (s, x(s)) on [t(ρ(a)), t(ρ(b))] and the function Cρ (s) := g(∂t , ρ̇(s)) either has
a definite sign on I or it vanishes everywhere.
Proof. The possibility of the reparametrization follows because the projection t :
R × M → R is a temporal function (see part (1) of Remark 3.4). Moreover, since ∂t
is a Killing vector field, g(∂t , γ̇) is constant for any geodesic γ of (R × M, g), which
implies that g(∂t , ρ̇(s)) will preserve the sign in s ∈ I, as ρ is a reparametrization
of a geodesic of (R × M, g).                                                           
Corollary 5.3. Two distinct points (t0 , x0 ), (t1 , x1 ) ∈ R × M are horismotically
                                 +                     +
related if and only if x1 ∈ B̂Σ     (x0 , t1 − t0 ) \ BΣ (x0 , t1 − t0 ).
   In this case, there exists a lightlike pregeodesic ρ : [t0 , t1 ] → R × M , ρ(s) =
(s, x(s)) from (t0 , x0 ) to (t1 , x1 ) and such that x is a unit extremizing geodesic of
Σ from x0 to x1 with `F (x) = t1 − t0 or `Fl (x) = t1 − t0 (or both). Moreover,
when x is a constant curve (i.e. an extremizing exceptional geodesic), necessarily
Λ(x0 ) = 0 with dΛ(Ker ωx0 ) ≡ 0; when x is not constant then it is regular (in the
sense of Definition 2.20-(iii)).
Proof. The first equivalence is straightforward from Proposition 5.1. More precisely,
two horismotically related points are connected by a lightlike geodesic γ (see e.g.
[72, Proposition 10.46]) and, applying Lemma 5.2, we can reparametrize γ as ρ(s) =
(s, x(s)). Now, x is a wind curve connecting x0 with x1 , and horismoticity implies
          +               +
x(s) ∈ B̂Σ  (x0 , s−t0 )\BΣ (x0 , s−t0 ), for all s ∈ (t0 , t1 ], so that x is a unit extremizing
geodesic (Definition 2.35). The last assertions follow from Lemmas 3.21 and 5.2. 
   The next result characterizes the lightlike geodesics of an SSTK spacetime in
terms of the Finslerian elements. But, first, the following lemma points out some
simple technical properties. Recall that a Lorentzian manifold (M, g) admits a
convex neighborhood U at every point p ∈ M (i.e., U is a normal neighborhood of
all its points), [88].
54                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Lemma 5.4. Given an SSTK splitting (R × M, g) and z0 = (t0 , x0 ) ∈ R × M there
exists a convex neighborhood U of z0 , a neighborhood V of z0 contained in U and
some small ε > 0 such that J + (z) ∩ {(t, x) ∈ R × M : t ∈ [t(z), t0 + ε)} ⊂ U for
every z ∈ V .
Proof. Consider a chart (U, y 0 , y 1 , . . . , y m ) around z0 such that no causal curve
starting at U will leave and return to U (this can be obtained as the SSTK spacetime
is strongly causal, Remark 3.4 (1)) and with the coordinates adapted to the product
structure (y 0 = t, y 1 , ...y m coordinates on M ). Choosing a smaller U , such that it
is convex in (R × M, g), define a (flat) Minkowski metric g flat in these coordinates
such that ∂i , i ∈ {1, . . . , m}, span a spacelike hyperplane and the timecones of g flat
are wider than those of g (this can be obtained obviously at the point z0 and, by
continuity, in some small neighborhood). Then, the required property for g holds
as it does trivially for g flat .                                                       

Theorem 5.5. Let I ⊂ R be an interval and ρ(s) = (s, x(s)), s ∈ I, be a (piecewise
smooth) curve in an SSTK splitting (R×M, g). Then ρ is a future-pointing lightlike
pregeodesic of (R × M, g) if and only if its projection I 3 s → x(s) ∈ M is a unit
geodesic of (M, Σ). Moreover, in this case:
  (i) Cρ < 0 iff x is a unit geodesic of F (F (ẋ) ≡ 1; x is F -admissible).
 (ii) Cρ > 0 iff x is a unit geodesic of Fl (Fl (ẋ) ≡ 1; x is F -admissible).
(iii) Cρ = 0 iff one of the following two possibilities occurs:
         (a) ρ is an integral curve of K which projects onto some x0 with Λ(x0 ) =
      0 and dΛ(Ker ωx0 ) ≡ 0 (so that the projection is an exceptional geodesic,
      Definition 2.44), or
         (b) x is contained in M l ; whenever it remains included in Ml , x is a lightlike
      pregeodesic of −h parametrized with F (ẋ) ≡ Fl (ẋ) ≡ 1, and x can reach ∂Ml
      only at isolated points sj ∈ I, j = 1, 2..., where Λ(x(sj )) = 0, ẋ(sj ) = 0 and
      (Dg0 ẋ/ds) (sj ) 6= 0.
Proof. Assume that ρ is a lightlike pregeodesic. For each s0 ∈ I (different from its
endpoints, and with straightforward modifications otherwise), there exists ε > 0
such that [s0 − ε, s0 + ε] ⊂ I and ρ(s) ∈ J + (ρ(s0 − ε)) \ I + (ρ(s0 − ε)), for all s ∈
[s0 − ε, s0 + ε] (recall, for example, [72, Proposition 5.34] and use strong causality).
Thus, Corollary 5.3 can be applied locally (recall Lemma 5.4), and x|[s0 −ε,s0 +ε] is
a unit extremizing geodesic of the Fermat structure (M, Σ).
    Conversely, if x : I → M is a unit geodesic of (M, Σ), then it is locally a unit
extremizing geodesic (recall Definitions 2.44, 2.35). So, by Proposition 5.1, every s0
(as above) admits an ε > 0 such that [s0 −ε, s0 +ε] ⊂ I and the curve [s0 −ε, s0 +ε] 3
s → (s, x(s)) ∈ R × M is contained in J + (s0 − ε, x(s0 − ε)) \ I + (s0 − ε, x(s0 − ε));
therefore, it is a lightlike pregeodesic (see [72, Proposition 10.46]).
    For the last part, first notice that Cρ = −Λ(x(s)) + ω(ẋ(s)) and Cρ2 = h(ẋ, ẋ)
(the latter follows as in the first part of the proof of Lemma 3.21). Thus, when
Cρ 6= 0, ẋ(s) belongs to Ax(s) , for all s ∈ I. Hence, x is a unit and F -admissible
geodesic of (M, Σ) and, then, from Theorem 2.53, a geodesic of F or Fl . Precisely,
from part (iii) of Proposition 3.12, F (ẋ) = 1 iff −Cρ = Λ(x(s)) − ω(ẋ(s)) ≥ 0 and
Fl (ẋ) = 1 iff −Cρ = Λ(x(s)) − ω(ẋ(s)) ≤ 0, i.e. x is a unit F -geodesic iff Cρ < 0
and a unit Fl -geodesic iff Cρ > 0. Finally, (iii) follows from Lemma 3.21.            

     As a straightforward consequence of Lemmas 3.21, 5.2 and Theorem 5.5 we get:
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                  55


Corollary 5.6. Let γ : I → R × M , γ(s) = (ζ(s), σ(s)) be a (piecewise smooth)
curve in an SSTK splitting (R × M, g), with σ non-constant. Then γ is a future-
pointing lightlike geodesic if and only if σ is a pregeodesic of (M, Σ) parametrized
with h(σ̇, σ̇) = const., and one of the following three exclusive possibilities holds
  (i) Cγ < 0 and σ is a pregeodesic of F and ζ(s̄0 ) − ζ(s0 ) = `F (σ|[s0 ,s̄0 ] ) for any
      s0 , s̄0 ∈ I, s0 < s̄0 ;
 (ii) Cγ > 0 and σ is a pregeodesic of Fl and ζ(s̄0 ) − ζ(s0 ) = `Fl (σ|[s0 ,s̄0 ] ) for any
      s0 , s̄0 ∈ I, s0 < s̄0 ;
(iii) Cγ = 0, σ is smooth8, it is included in M l , it touches ∂Ml at most at isolated
      points sj , j = 1, 2, . . . , such that σ̇(sj ) = 0, σ is a lightlike geodesic of h/Λ
      whenever it remains in Ml , and also ζ is determined by
                       ζ(s̄0 ) − ζ(s0 ) = `Fl (σ|[s0 ,s̄0 ] ) = `F (σ|[s0 ,s̄0 ] )
      for any s0 , s̄0 ∈ I, s0 < s̄0 .
5.2. Characterization of the causal ladder. The following technical property
concerns limit curves (recall Definition 4.4) in connection with time functions. The
role of these functions in the limit process is not usually taken into account (indeed,
it is rather trivial in the case of Cauchy temporal functions). So, we write it for
any stably causal spacetime, which may have interest in its own right.
Lemma 5.7. Let (L, g) be a spacetime endowed with a time function t : L → R.
  (i) Consider a sequence of inextendible causal curves {γn } parametrized by the
      time t and assume that there exists a convergent sequence {tn } such that
      γn (tn ) converges to z0 . Then there exists an (inextendible, causal) limit curve
      γ through z0 parametrized by the time t, and a subsequence γnk such that,
      whenever the intersection of γ with the slice St0 := {z ∈ L : t(z) = t0 } is not
      empty for t0 ∈ R, then all the curves γnk but a finite number intersect St0
      and γ(t0 ) = limk γnk (t0 ).
 (ii) Let γn be a sequence of causal curves and, for each n ∈ N, zn ≤ wn be two
      points on γn . If zn → z, wn → w, z 6= w, and the intersection of the slice St0
      with the images of all γn lies in a compact subset for any t0 ∈ (t(z), t(w)),
      then any (inextendible) limit curve γ of the sequence starting at z arrives at
      w.
Proof. (i) The existence of the limit curve follows from [8, Proposition 3.31]. Let
{γnk } be any subsequence that converges to γ uniformly on compact subsets for
some auxiliary complete Riemannian metric (up to a reparametrization, according
to [8, Lemma 14.2]) and, so, such that some sequence {pk := γnk (tnk )}, tnk ∈ R,
converges to p := γ(t0 ); in particular tnk → t0 . Choose open neighborhoods V, U
of p, with V ⊂ U , U convex and V having compact closure included in U and
being globally hyperbolic with Cauchy hypersurface St0 .9 Due to the convergence
to p, all γnk but a finite number will enter in V and cross V ∩ St0 at a single
point qk . Reasoning by contradiction, if {qk } does not converge to p then, up to
a subsequence, {qk } converges to some q ∈ U \ {p}. Assume that, up to a new
subsequence, pk ≤ qk (otherwise we could assume qk ≤ pk up to a subsequence,
   8Notice that smoothness follows if we assume just that it is twice differentiable at the points
where it touches ∂Ml .
   9Such a neighborhood V can be constructed easily by taken the Cauchy development of a small
neighborhood in St0 of p, see [71, Theorem 2.14].
56                     E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


and the reasoning would be analogous). By the convexity of U , p ≤ q but, as p and
q lie in the acausal set10 V ∩ St0 , one obtains the absurd p = q.
   (ii) Let t∗ ∈ (t(z), t(w)) and let us reparameterize all the curves with t. Assume
that γ : [t(z), t∗ ) → L cannot be extended to t∗ . Let {γnk } be any subsequence that
converges to γ as in part (i) and such that {γnk (t∗ )} converges to some point z ∗ ∈
St∗ , the latter property by the assumption on compactness. Up to a subsequence,
{γnk } admits a limit curve starting at z ∗ , say, ρ : (t∗ − ε, t∗ ] → L for some ε > 0.
Now, by part (i), necessarily {γnk (t)} converges to both γ(t) and ρ(t), for each
t ∈ (t∗ − ε, t∗ ). So, γ admits z ∗ as a future limit point and it is then extendible,
a contradiction. Thus, γ is defined on [t(z), t(w)) and since wn → w necessarily it
arrives at w.                                                                         
   As a first consequence, we obtain characterizations of some causal properties,
which will be related to the possible reflectivity and causal simplicity of the space-
time.
Proposition 5.8. For any p = (t0 , x0 ), q = (t1 , x1 ) in an SSTK splitting:
                                              +
  (i) I + (p) ⊃ I + (q) if and only if x1 ∈ B̄Σ (x0 , t1 − t0 ), and
        −         −                           −
 (ii) I (p) ⊂ I (q) if and only if x0 ∈ B̄Σ     (x1 , t1 − t0 ).
Moreover,
                   J¯+ (t0 , x0 ) = ∪s>0 {t0 + s} × B̄Σ
                                                      +
                                                                
                                                        (x0 , s) ∪ {(t0 , x0 )}
                                                      −
                   J¯− (t0 , x0 ) = ∪s>0 {t0 − s} × B̄Σ
                                                                
                                                        (x0 , s) ∪ {(t0 , x0 )}
Proof. We consider the case (i), being part (ii) analogous.
    (⇒) Choose {qn } ⊂ I + (q), converging to q and inextendible future-pointing
timelike curves γn through p and qn . From part (i) of Lemma 5.7, there exists a
subsequence γnk that cuts the slice St1 in a sequence of points (t1 , ynk ), such that
                                               +                                  +
ynk → x1 . By Proposition 5.1, ynk ∈ BΣ          (x0 , t1 −t0 ) and, then, x1 ∈ B̄Σ (x0 , t1 −t0 ).
                       +                                             +
    (⇐) As x1 ∈ B̄Σ (x0 , t1 −t0 ), take a sequence {ỹn } in BΣ (x0 , t1 −t0 ) converging to
x1 . The sequence qn = (t1 , ỹn ) converges to q and, by Proposition 5.1, is contained
in I + (p). As the chronological relations are open, given r ∈ I + (q), then r ∈ I + (qn )
for n big enough. This implies that r ∈ I + (p) and then I + (p) ⊃ I + (q), as required.
    For the last assertion, recall first that, in any spacetime J¯± (p) = I¯± (p) (see,
e.g. [72, Lemma 14.6]) hence the inclusions ⊃ hold trivially from Proposition 5.1.
For the converse in the case of J¯+ , let q = (t1 , x1 ) ∈ J¯+ (p) = I¯+ (p), and take
qn ∈ I + (p) such that qn → q. Apply part (i) of Lemma 5.7 to obtain a sequence
(t1 , ynk ) ∈ I + (p) such that ynk → x1 , and conclude again from Proposition 5.1 that
           +                                 +
ynk ∈ BΣ     (x0 , t1 − t0 ), so that x1 ∈ B̄Σ (x0 , t1 − t0 ).                                 
  Now, we can study the causal ladder of any SSTK splitting, extending the
Randers-Kropina case in Theorem 4.9.
Theorem 5.9. Consider an SSTK splitting (R × M, g) as in (26) with associated
Fermat structure Σ on M . Then, (R × M, g) is stably causal and
 (i) (R × M, g) is causally continuous if and only if Σ satisfies the following prop-
                                                                      +
     erty: given any pair of points x0 , x1 in M and r > 0, x1 ∈ B̄Σ    (x0 , r) if and
                    −
     only if x0 ∈ B̄Σ (x1 , r).

     10 A subset A of a spacetime V is said acausal if no p, q ∈ A are causally related in V .
                     WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                 57


 (ii) (R × M, g) is causally simple if and only if (M, Σ) is w-convex (according to
       Definition 2.45).
(iii) The following assertions are equivalent:
     (iii1) (R × M, g) is globally hyperbolic.
              +              −
     (iii2) B̂Σ (x, r1 ) ∩ B̂Σ (y, r2 ) is compact for every x, y ∈ M and r1 , r2 > 0.
              +              −
     (iii3) B̄Σ (x, r1 ) ∩ B̄Σ (y, r2 ) is compact for every x, y ∈ M and r1 , r2 > 0.
(iv) The following assertions are equivalent:
     (iv1) A slice St (and, then every slice) is a spacelike Cauchy hypersurface.
                                +                −
     (iv2) All the c-balls B̂Σ    (x, r) and B̂Σ   (x, r), r > 0, x ∈ M , are compact.
                                        +               −
     (iv3) All the (open) balls BΣ        (x, r) and BΣ   (x, r), r > 0, x ∈ M , are precom-
            pact.
     (iv4) Σ is forward and backward geodesically complete (according to Defini-
            tion 2.45).
Proof. (i) As the natural projection t : R × M → R is a temporal function, Re-
mark 3.4, the spacetime is stably causal. Thus, causal continuity becomes equiva-
lent to past and future reflectivity. However, by Proposition 5.8, past reflectivity
(i.e., I + (p) ⊃ I + (q) implies I − (p) ⊂ I − (q)) becomes equivalent to the property
                              +                          −
                       x1 ∈ B̄Σ (x0 , t1 − t0 ) ⇒ x0 ∈ B̄Σ (x1 , t1 − t0 ),
and future reflectivity is equivalent to the converse.
   (ii) Assuming that (R×M, g) is causally simple, for any x0 ∈ M and t0 < t1 , the
intersections St1 ∩ J + (t0 , x0 ) and S2t0 −t1 ∩ J − (t0 , x0 ) must be closed. By Propo-
                                                            +
sition 5.1, these intersections are equal to {t1 } × B̂Σ      (x0 , t1 − t0 ) and {2t0 − t1 } ×
  −
B̂Σ (x0 , t1 − t0 ), respectively, which means that Σ is w-convex. For the converse,
just apply the last assertion of Proposition 5.8, plus Proposition 2.33 and Proposi-
tion 5.1.
   (iii) ((iii1) ⇒ (iii2)) Assume that (R × M, g) is globally hyperbolic and consider
the points (r1 , x) and (−r2 , y). By Proposition 5.1,
                                            
                                   −
       {0} × B̂Σ    +
                      (x, r1 ) ∩ B̂Σ (y, r2 ) = ({0} × M ) ∩ J + (−r1 , x) ∩ J − (r2 , y),
and the right-hand side is compact by global hyperbolicity.
   ((iii2) ⇒ (iii3)) By Proposition 2.33, it is enough to prove that the property of
compactness of the intersections implies the closedness of the c-balls. Reasoning
                                   +               +
by contradiction, if, say, z ∈ B̄Σ   (x, r1 ) \ B̂Σ  (x, r1 ), as z always belongs to some
              −
(open) ball BΣ (y, r2 ) (recall that one can take any Σ− admissible curve through z
                                                                 +              −
in order to choose appropriate y and r2 ), necessarily B̂Σ         (x, r1 ) ∩ B̂Σ (y, r2 ) cannot
be compact.
   ((iii3) ⇒ (iii1)) For any (t0 , x0 ), (t1 , x1 ) in R × M , recalling Propositions 5.1
and 2.33, we get
   J + (t0 , x0 ) ∩ J − (t1 , x1 ) ⊂
                                +              −
                                                                   
    ∪s∈(0,t1 −t0 ) {t0 + s} × B̄Σ (x0 , s) ∩ B̄Σ (x1 , t1 − t0 − s) ∪ {(t, x0 ), (t1 , x1 )}
and we have to check that the left-hand side is compact. Indeed, for any sequence
{zn } ⊂ J + (t0 , x0 ) ∩ J − (t1 , x1 ) we can take a sequence of causal curves γn from
(t0 , x0 ) to (t1 , x1 ) passing through zn . By the hypothesis on the closures, part (ii)
of Lemma 5.7 is applicable, and there exists a limit curve γ of {γn } with the same
endpoints. So, some subsequence {γnk } converges in the C 0 topology to γ (see
58                    E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


[8, Proposition 3.34]) and, thus, {znk } lies in a compact subset, admitting so a
convergent subsequence to a point in the image of γ.
   (iv) ((iv1 ) ⇒ (iv2 )) By Proposition 5.1,
                                                                             −
                                  +
        J + (0, x) ∩ Sr = {r} × B̂Σ (x, r),      J − (0, x) ∩ S−r = {−r} × B̂Σ (x, r)
and the left-hand sides are compact as Sr , S−r are Cauchy hypersurfaces (other-
wise, the limit curve of the sequence of causal curves obtained by connecting (0, x)
with a diverging sequence of points would not cross the corresponding Cauchy hy-
persurface).
     ((iv2 ) ⇒ (iv3 )) Just apply Proposition 2.33.
     ((iv3 ) ⇒ (iv1 )) By using the one-parameter group of isometries generated by the
complete Killing field ∂t , one easily sees that if a slice St0 is a Cauchy hypersurface
then all the slices St are Cauchy hypersurfaces. Thus, by contradiction, let us
assume that S0 is not Cauchy. Hence, there will exist some inextendible timelike
curve ρ : [0, t0 ) → R × M , ρ(s) = (s − t0 , xρ (s)) or ρ : (−t0 , 0] → R × M ,
ρ(s) = (s + t0 , xρ (s)), which does not cross it. We recall that any timelike vertical
line s 7→ (s, x̄), x̄ ∈ M , always crosses once S0 and that, for any subinterval
[s1 , s2 ] ⊂ [0, t0 ) (or ⊂ (−t0 , 0]) containing some point s̄ where ẋρ (s̄) = 0, ρ|[s1 ,s2 ]
can be replaced by a timelike future-pointing curve ρ̃(s) = (s, xρ̃ (s)), such that
ẋρ̃ (s) 6= 0, for each s ∈ [s1 , s2 ] (see footnote 6). Summing up, we can assume,
without losing generality, that ẋρ (s) 6= 0, for all s. Thus, being ρ timelike and
future-pointing, we have (recall (40)) `F (xρ ) < t0 < `Fl (xρ ). Then if  > 0 is small
                               +                                       −
enough, xρ (t0 − ) ∈ BΣ         (xρ (0), t0 ) or xρ (−t0 + ) ∈ BΣ      (xρ (0), t0 ). As ρ cannot
remain in a compact region of the spacetime (otherwise it would be extendible),
            +                                          −
either BΣ     (xρ (0), t0 ) in the first case, or BΣ     (xρ (0), t0 ) in the second one, is not
precompact.
     ((iv1 ) ⇔ (iv4 )) As the slices St are closed, spacelike and acausal, each one will be
Cauchy if and only if it is crossed by any future-pointing inextendible lightlike pre-
geodesic ρ (see [72, Lemma 14.42 and Corollary 14.54]). So, let ρ be any inextendible
future-pointing lightlike pregeodesic and let us parametrize it as ρ(s) = (s, xρ (s))
(recall Lemma 5.2). Hence, St will be Cauchy if and only if ρ is defined on R. From
the first part of Theorem 5.5, this property is equivalent to saying that (M, Σ) is
forward and backward geodesically complete.                                                      

Remark 5.10. (1) As suggested by the equivalence (i) above, wind Finslerian
                          +                                     −
structures where x1 ∈ B̄Σ   (x0 , r) does not imply that x0 ∈ B̄Σ (x1 , r) do exist (in
contrast with the Randers-Kropina case); in fact, it is not difficult to construct
explicit examples, as the one in Fig. 9.
   (2) In the comparison with the Randers-Kropina case, notice that Theorem 4.9
was stated by using only balls for the Finslerian separation dF , as this notion had
familiar similarities with a distance. However, the results stated here in terms of
c-balls are more accurate and refine those in that theorem.

     6. Applications to wind Riemannian structures and navigation
   As emphasized in Section 3, every wind Riemannian structure can be seen as
the Fermat structure of a certain SSTK splitting (canonically chosen in a conformal
class, see Theorem 3.10), which will be referred to as the SSTK splitting associated
with the wind Riemannian structure.
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             59




         Figure 9. A wind Finslerian structure on R2 minus the bold
                                      +                      +
         dashed segment, where x1 ∈ B̄Σ (x0 , r) but x0 6∈ B̄Σ (x1 , r)

   Along this section, some results on wind Riemannian structures will be obtained
by using the associated SSTK splitting. Some of these properties can be general-
izable to any wind Finslerian structure, see Section 9.
6.1. Characterization of geodesics and Hopf-Rinow properties. One of the
most relevant difficulties of arbitrary wind Finslerian structures in comparison with
standard Finsler (or Riemannian) metrics is that the exponential map is not nec-
essarily defined in all directions. Indeed, the second order differential equations
defining the extremizing geodesics of the conic non-degenerate pseudo-Finsler met-
rics F and Fl associated with Σ have coefficients Γkij defined on a subset (A or
Al ) of T M that, in general, does not contain a punctured neighborhood of the zero
section (the most we could say was Theorem 2.53). In wind Riemannian structures,
however, this difficulty can be overcome easily by using the associated SSTK split-
ting. Indeed, recall that a triple (g0 , ω, Λ) is associated with any wind Riemannian
structure (M, Σ) (Proposition 2.55 and Definition 2.56) and then an SSTK space-
time with Fermat structure Σ (Theorem 3.10). As a first result in this direction we
have the following.
Proposition 6.1. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian manifold, then its wind balls
are open.
                                  ±
Proof. From Proposition 5.1, BΣ     (x0 , s) is homeomorphic to I ± (t0 , x0 ) ∩ St0 +s and,
                   ±
in any spacetime, I (t0 , x0 ) is open.                                                   
   Notice that the Lorentzian result [72, Proposition 10.46]) claimed in the proof
of Proposition 5.1 has been crucial.
   We pass now to study geodesics of a wind Riemannian structure. As any lightlike
geodesic is locally horismotic, Corollary 5.3 plus the crucial Lemma 3.21 on lightlike
geodesics of an SSTK splitting imply:
Proposition 6.2. All the non-exceptional geodesics of a wind Riemannian mani-
fold (M, Σ) are regular. Moreover, if x is a non-exceptional geodesic of Σ then it is
a smooth curve, its velocity can be zero only at isolated points and its acceleration
(for one auxiliary Riemannian metric and, then, for any of them) does not vanish
at those zeroes.
60                    E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   The following theorem characterizes wind Riemannian geodesics and refines The-
orem 2.53.
Theorem 6.3. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian structure. For any Σ-admissible
(piecewise smooth) curve x : [a, b] → M , the following conditions are equivalent:
  (i) x is a unit geodesic of Σ,
 (ii) x satisfies one of the following three exclusive possibilities:
         (a) x is a unit F -admissible geodesic of (M, F ) and, then, locally, it mini-
      mizes the F -length
         (b) x is a unit F -admissible geodesic of (Ml , Fl ) and, then, locally, it max-
      imizes the Fl -length,
         (c) x is a smooth curve contained in M l and either (c1) x is constant,
      Λ(x) = 0 and dΛ(ker ωx ) ≡ 0 or (c2) whenever it remains included in Ml ,
      x is a lightlike pregeodesic of the Lorentzian metric −h in (34) parametrized
      with F (ẋ) ≡ Fl (ẋ) ≡ 1 (x is a boundary geodesic), and x can reach ∂Ml only
      at isolated points sj ∈ I, j = 1, 2..., where ẋ(sj ) = 0, dΛ(ker ωx(sj ) ) 6= 0 and
      its second derivative (in one and then any coordinates)11 does not vanish.
Proof. The implication (i) ⇒ (ii) follows by applying Theorem 5.5 to the SSTK
splitting (R × M, g) associated with (M, Σ). Moreover, as in Theorem 2.53, it can
be proved that the extremal properties hold for any variation. For the converse,
in the cases (a) and (b), choose s0 ∈ [a, b] and take the future-pointing lightlike
geodesic γ of the associated SSTK       spacetime (R × M, g), satisfying the initial con-
ditions (s0 , x(s0 )), (1, ẋ(s0 )) . Let us reparametrize γ as ρ(s) = (s, xρ (s)). From
Theorem 5.5, xρ is a unit geodesic of (M, Σ) and, as the vector ẋ(s0 ) ∈ Ax(s0 ) ,
Cρ 6= 0. Thus, xρ is, according to the sign of Cρ , a unit F -admissible geodesic
for F or Fl which coincides with x by existence and uniqueness of geodesic of a
conic pseudo-Finsler metric. In the remaining case (c), whenever x is not constant,
j = 1, 2, . . . , such that Λ(xρ (sj )) = 0 and ẋρ (sj ) = 0, the curve ρ(s) = (s, x(s)) is
orthogonal to the Killing vector field (recall part (iii) of Proposition 3.12) and then
a lightlike pregeodesic whenever x is contained in Ml (recall, from Proposition 3.18,
that π : (R × Ml , g) → (Ml , Λ1 h) is a semi-Riemannian submersion, and also that
lightlike pregeodesics were preserved by conformal changes of the metric); more-
over, as x is smooth and its derivative vanishes at the points where it touches the
boundary ∂Ml , we conclude that ρ is globally a lightlike pregeodesic. Then, from
Theorem 5.5-(iii), x is a unit geodesic of (M, Σ). Finally, if x ≡ x0 ∈ M , Λ(x0 ) = 0
and dΛ(ker ωx0 ) = 0, then x is an exceptional geodesic of (M, Σ).                        
Lemma 6.4. For every neighborhood W0 of x0 ∈ M , there exists another neigh-
                                           ±
borhood U0 ⊂ W0 and some ε > 0 such that B̂Σ (x, r) is compact and contained in
W0 for every r < ε and x ∈ U0 .
Proof. The proof is a refinement of Lemma 5.4 obtained by taking into account that,
given W0 and considering the SSTK splitting (R × M, g) associated with the wind
Riemannian structure, then the convex neighborhood U provided by that lemma
around z0 = (0, x0 ) can be easily chosen satisfying the following properties: (i) U
is included in R × W0 , (ii) U is precompact and (iii) U contains the intersections
J ± (z) ∩ ([−ε, ε] × M ) for some ε > 0 and all z in a smaller neighborhood V ⊂ U .
   11With natural identifications; this condition can be also formulated in terms of the 2-jet of x
at each sj .
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                              61


Then, put U0 := V ∩ S0 ⊂ W0 and observe that, for any r ∈ (0, ε), the set
J + (0, x)∩({±r}×M ) is compact for all x ∈ U0 (observe that it is a closed set, as U is
normal, included in a compact set, also by hypothesis on U ) and, by Proposition 5.1,
                                     ±
it projects homeomorphically into B̂Σ  (x0 , r) and this projection is contained in W0
as required.                                                                          
  The following local properties can also be proved by using the spacetime view-
point. They are equivalent to saying that the exponential maps of the conic pseudo-
Finsler metrics associated with a wind Riemannian metric are defined in some small
cone.
Proposition 6.5. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian structure and x0 ∈ M , then
there exists ε > 0 such that the geodesics of F (resp. Fl ) departing from x0 and
parametrized by the arc length are defined on [0, ε) and they are extremizing unit
geodesic and therefore minima (resp. maxima) of `F (resp. `Fl ) with respect to any
variation.
Proof. Let ε > 0 as in Lemma 6.4 and consider the SSTK splitting associated
with (M, Σ). Any geodesic x : [0, ax ] → M , ax > 0 of F or Fl , starting at x0
and parametrized by the arc length, defines a lightlike pregeodesic (s, x(s)) (recall
Theorems 5.5 and 6.3) which must be defined on [0, r], for any r < ε. In fact,
(s, x(s)) ∈ J + (0, x0 )∩({s}×M ) and, for s ∈ [0, r], J + (0, x0 )∩({s}×M ) is contained
in a precompact convex neighborhood of (0, x0 ) (see the proof of Lemma 6.4).
Therefore, (s, x(s)) ∈ J + (0, x0 ) \ I + (0, x0 ) and x must also be an extremizing unit
geodesic for Σ by Corollary 5.3 and then, being F -admissible, it must be a local
minimum of `F or a local maximum of `Fl (recall Theorem 6.3).                          
   Finally, the following result becomes straightforward from Theorem 5.9 and plays
the role of Hopf-Rinow theorem for wind Finslerian structures (then generalizing
Corollary 4.10).
Proposition 6.6. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemann structure.
  (i) The following properties are equivalent:
      (a) Σ is geodesically complete,
            +                −
      (b) BΣ  (x, r) and BΣ    (x, r) are precompact for every x ∈ M and r > 0.
            +                −
      (c) B̂Σ (x, r) and B̂Σ   (x, r) are compact for every x ∈ M and r > 0.
      In particular, if M is compact then Σ is geodesically complete.
 (ii) The following properties are equivalent and imply the w-convexity (Defini-
      tion 2.45) of (M, Σ):
            +              −
      (a) B̂Σ (x, r1 ) ∩ B̂Σ (y, r2 ) is compact for every x, y ∈ M and r1 , r2 > 0.
            +              −
      (b) B̄Σ (x, r1 ) ∩ B̄Σ (y, r2 ) is compact for every x, y ∈ M and r1 , r2 > 0.
      Moreover, these conditions hold whenever the previous ones in (i) are satisfied.
                                              +                                −
(iii) If (M, Σ) is w-convex, then x1 ∈ B̄Σ      (x0 , r) if and only if x0 ∈ B̄Σ (x1 , r) for
      any x0 , x1 ∈ M and r > 0.
Proof. Apply Theorem 5.9 to the associated SSTK splitting (see Theorem 3.10),
and use the causal implications: existence of a Cauchy hypersurface ⇒ global
hyperbolicity ⇒ causal simplicity ⇒ causal continuity.                     
   The relations between lightlike geodesics on an SSTK splitting and geodesics of
the associated Fermat structure are summarized in Fig. 10.
62                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ



                           ρ(s) = (s, x(s)) lightlike pregeodesic
                            (thus Cρ has a definite sign, Lemma 5.2)
                                                KS
                                                     Theorem 5.5
                                                 
     z                                          }|                                              {
                                                         x is an exceptional geodesic or,
                                                          equivalently, ρ is an integral
         x = x(s) is a unit, non
                                                            curve of K at (0, x0 ) with
     exceptional geodesic of (M, Σ)
                     KS                                  Λ(x0 ) = 0 and dΛ(Ker ωx0 ) = 0
                                                                   (in particular Cρ ≡ 0)
                          Theorems 5.5, 6.3

                            
                              unit geodesic of F Lemma 2.52 critical    point of `F on
                             
                                                 ⇐= ===== = ⇒  ΩAx0 ,y0   parametrized
                               (with Cρ < 0)
                             
                                                                with unit F -speed
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                                                              critical point of `Fl on
                             unit geodesic of Fl ⇐Lemma
                             
                                                        2.52
                                                   =======⇒ ΩA
                             
                                                                 x0 ,y0   parametrized
            x = x(s) is a       (with Cρ > 0)                              with unit F -speed
                                                                         l
                             
                               light. pregeod. of −h, up to isolated points
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                             
                              where x is smooth, parametrized with
                             
                             
                             
                              unit speed w.r.t. F = Fl
                             
                                (and Cρ = 0)


         Figure 10. The relations between future-pointing lightlike pre-
         geodesics of an SSTK splitting and geodesics of the associated
         Fermat structure. Here ρ is a t-parametrized curve in the SSTK
         splitting (s ∈ [a, b], x0 = x(a), y0 = x(b)). Moreover, maximizing
         lightlike pregeodesics (i.e., whose points are horismotically related)
         which are not reparametrizations of flow lines of K correspond to
         extremizing geodesics of the Fermat structure, Corollary 5.3.

6.2. The role of the different splittings of an SSTK spacetime. Observe that
given an SSTK spacetime, for every spacelike hypersurface which intersects all the
orbits of the Killing field there will exist a different splitting (26) as an SSTK (with
the same Killing vector field). Let us characterize when a transversal hypersurface
is spacelike in terms of the Fermat structure.
Lemma 6.7. Let (R × M, g) be an SSTK splitting with g given by (26) and f :
M → R, a smooth function. Then S f = {(f (x), x) ∈ R × M : x ∈ M } is a spacelike
hypersurface if and only if one of the following two exclusive possibilities occurs:
either
                        df (v) < F (v) for every v ∈ A ∪ AE ,                   (41)
or the Killing field K = ∂t is spacelike everywhere and
                           df (v) > Fl (v) for every v ∈ A ∪ AE .                                   (42)
Proof. Observe that the tangent space to S f at (f (x), x) ∈ S f is given by
                          T(f (x),x) S f = {(df (v), v) : v ∈ Tx M },
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                          63


and, then,
             g((df (v), v), (df (v), v)) = g0 (v, v) + 2ω(v)df (v) − Λdf (v)2 ,
so that S f is spacelike if and only if
                         g0 (v, v) + 2ω(v)df (v) − Λdf (v)2 > 0                    (43)
for every v ∈ T M \0. Now, if Λ(x) > 0, (43) is equivalent to −F̃ (v) < df (v) < F (v)
for every v ∈ Tx M \ {0}, and this is equivalent to df (v) < F (v) (because −F̃ (v) =
−F (−v) for every v ∈ Tx M \ {0}, recall Remark 2.61). If Λ(x) = 0 then, (43) is
equivalent to df (v) < F (v) = − g(v,v)
                                    2ω(v) , for all v ∈ Ax = {v ∈ Tx M : −ω(v) > 0},
since it is satisfied for each v 6= 0 belonging to the kernel of ω, while on −Ax it
becomes df (v) > − g(v,v)
                       2ω(v) = −F (−v). Hence, we conclude that, when Λ(x) ≥ 0,
(43) is satisfied if and only if (41) holds on A.
   If Λ(x) < 0, (43) is satisfied away from Ax ∪ (−Ax ) \ {0}, while on (AE )x (=
{v ∈ Tx M : −ω(v) > 0, Λ(x)g0 (v, v) + ω(v)2 ≥ 0}) it is equivalent either to
                      df (v) < F (v)       or to       df (v) > Fl (v).            (44)
On −(AE )x , the required conditions are satisfied iff they are satisfied on (AE )x , so
that (44) suffices.
   By a simple continuity argument, it follows that both conditions in (44) cannot
hold for different tangent vectors (at the same or at different points). Then, if the
second inequality holds, Λ < 0 in M and the Killing field is spacelike everywhere.
                                                                                      
Remark 6.8. Geometrically, the meaning of the two possibilities in the lemma is
the following. When the tangent space Tx S f is naturally included in T(f (x),x) L,
(L = R × M ) the latter is divided in two open half spaces. If (41) holds, then the
future-pointing vectors and the Killing ∂t lie in the same half space, but when (42)
holds they lie in different ones (see Fig. 11). In the latter case, we can follow the
proof of Proposition 3.3 and choose S f as the spacelike hypersurface S which allows
us to write the spacetime as an SSTK splitting. Then the corresponding projection
tf : L → R still satisfies that −∇tf is timelike, but we cannot assume that it is
future-pointing (as the time-orientation had already been prescribed). Indeed, −tf
(no tf ) is a temporal function now.
   Now, let (R × M, g) be an SSTK splitting and fix some f : M → R under
the hypotheses (41) or (42) of the lemma. Define the spacelike hypersurface S f of
(R × M, g) and denote the new SSTK splitting as (R × M, g f ), where
                  g f ((τ, v), (τ, v)) = g((df (v) + τ, v), (df (v) + τ, v))       (45)
for (τ, v) ∈ R × T M .
Convention 6.9. According to the remark above, Σf will denote the Fermat struc-
ture associated with (R × M, g f ) when f lies in the case (41) and its reverse Fermat
structure (see comment before Corollary 3.16) when f lies in the case (42).
Proposition 6.10. With the above notation,
  (i) if F and Fl are the conic pseudo-Finsler metrics associated with Σ, then F f =
      F − df and Flf = Fl − df are the conic pseudo-Finsler metrics associated with
      Σf ,
 (ii) Σf has the same geodesics as Σ up to parametrization.
64                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ




          Figure 11. A hypersurface S f in an SSTK splitting L = R × M
          satisfying condition (42). The shaded region represents the future-
          pointing causal vectors in T(f (x),x) L


Proof. Observe that g f ((τ, v), (τ, v)) = g0f (v, v) + 2ω f (v)τ − Λf τ 2 , where
     g0f (v, v) = g((df (v), v), (df (v), v)) = g0 (v, v) + 2ω(v)df (v) − Λdf (v)2 ,
                                                                                       (46)
        ω f (v) = g((df (v), v), (1, 0)) = ω(v) − Λdf (v)
and Λf = Λ; in particular, the metric h in (34) remains invariant:
                        Λg0f (v, v) + ω f (v)2 = Λg0 (v, v) + ω(v)2 .                  (47)
                                           f
   (i) When Λ(x) = 0, the equality F = F − df follows directly from (46) (recall
(31)). For the case Λ 6= 0, just notice that the expressions of F, Fl in (30), (32) can
be rewritten as in the first identity of (33), and use (47).
   (ii) By Theorem 6.3, the geodesics of Σf are either geodesics of F f , geodesics
of Flf , lightlike pregeodesics of Λg0f (v, v) + ω f (v)2 (except at isolated points) or
constant curves with Λf (x) = 0 and dΛf (Ker ωxf ) ≡ 0. In the two last cases,
they are pregeodesics of Σ by (47) and because dΛ(Ker ωx ) ≡ 0 if and only if
dΛf (Ker ωxf ) ≡ 0 in the points where Λf (x)(= Λ(x)) = 0. In the other cases, the
length functionals of F f = F − df and F (resp. Flf and Fl ), when defined on
the space of F -admissible (or equivalently F f -admissible) curves connecting two
prescribed points, are the same up to a constant. Therefore, both functionals have
the same critical points and these critical points are pregeodesics of (M, Σ) by
Theorem 6.3.                                                                          
   Previous interpretations allow us to refine the conclusions of Proposition 6.6 in
the Randers-Kropina case.
Corollary 6.11. Let (M, F ) be a Randers-Kropina metric. If the intersection of
any closed forward ball and any closed backward one is compact then there exists a
new Randers-Kropina metric F f which is geodesically complete and has the same
pregeodesics of F .
Proof. As the associated SSTK splitting (R × M, g) is globally hyperbolic by part
(ii) of Theorem 4.9, there exists a smooth spacelike Cauchy hypersurface S (see
[11]). As the integral curves of ∂t are causal, they must intersect S transversely
and, so, S can be written as a graph S f . By Proposition 6.10, the associated
splitting (R × M, g f ) has a Fermat structure Σf which must be associated with
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             65


some Randers-Kropina metric F f = F − df , and will have the same pregeodesics
as F . By part (iii) of Theorem 4.9, Σf is geodesically complete.           
Remark 6.12. In the stationary case Λ > 0, the function f can be explained
physically as a (new) synchronization of the “observers” travelling along the integral
curves of ∂t . In the case Λ ≥ 0, Corollary 6.11 extends [23, Theorem 5.10] valid for
Randers manifolds (namely, if R is a Randers metric and the closed symmetrized
balls are compact then there exists a function f such that R−df is also Randers, plus
complete and with the same pregeodesics as R). As suggested in that reference and
proved in [68], such a result can be extended from Randers to any Finsler manifold.
Anyway, notice that in the case of strong wind an additional difficulty occurs in
the proof of Corollary 6.11: as the integral curves of ∂t become spacelike, it is not
guaranteed that they will cross the Cauchy hypersurface S.
6.3. Precedence relation and solution to Zermelo problem. In [51], the
authors introduced a notion of precedence, ≺, for a conic pseudo-Finsler metric
(see Section 4.1). This can be easily extended to any wind Finslerian structure
(M, Σ) and, moreover, also a less restrictive relation  appears naturally, so that
≺ and  resemble, respectively, the chronological and the causal relations in a
Lorentzian manifold. Namely, for any x, y ∈ M , we say that x ≺ y (resp. x  y)
                                                                            A
if there exists an F -wind (resp. wind) curve connecting x to y (i.e Cx,y      6= ∅, resp.
   Σ
Cx,y 6= ∅). Moreover, for any x ∈ M , the F -future (resp. Σ-future, F -past, Σ-past)
of x is the set IΣ+ (x) (resp. JΣ+ (x), IΣ− (x), JΣ− (x)) defined as IΣ+ (x) = {y ∈ M :
x ≺ y} (resp. JΣ+ (x) = {y ∈ M : x  y} ∪ {x}, IΣ− (x) = {y ∈ M : y ≺ x},
JΣ− (x) = {y ∈ M : y  x} ∪ {x}). The following result summarizes the relations
between the above-defined IΣ± , JΣ± , and the corresponding future or past sets for
the Lorentzian metrics g in R × M and −h in Ml .
Proposition 6.13. For a wind Riemannian structure with associated SSTK split-
ting (R × M, g) and natural projection π : R × M → M :
           IΣ+ (x) = π I + (0, x) ,            IΣ− (x) = π I − (0, x) ,
                                                                    

           JΣ+ (x) = π J + (0, x) ,            JΣ− (x) = π J − (0, x) ,
                                                                    

where x ∈ M, (0, x) ∈ R × M . In particular, IΣ± (x) are open subsets.
   In the case of strong wind (M = Ml ), IΣ+ (x) and IΣ− (x) coincide, resp., with the
chronological future and past of x for the Lorentzian metric −h on M endowed with
a natural time-orientation.
Proof. We shall prove the proposition only for the future sets IΣ+ , being the proof
for IΣ− completely analogous. Let y ∈ IΣ+ (x), σ ∈ Cx,y         A
                                                                  . As σ̇ ± (t) ∈ A, then
                                    +
F σ̇ ± (t) < Fl σ̇ ± (t) and y ∈ BΣ
                       
                                      (x, r), r ∈ (`F (σ), `Fl (σ)). Thus, Proposition 5.1
                        +
ensures that (r, y) ∈ I (0, x). For the converse inclusion, just recall that if (0, x) 
(r, y) ∈ R × M then there exists a future-pointing timelike curve γ(s) = (t(s), σ(s))
between (0, x) and (r, y) with σ̇(s) 6= 0 for all s, see footnote 6. Reparameterizing
γ with respect to t gives an F -wind curve between x and y and y ∈ IΣ+ (x).
    The proof of the inclusions for JΣ± are analogous except for a slight difference.
In fact, for the inclusion π (J + (0, x)) ⊂ JΣ+ (x), observe that if (0, x) < (r, y), the
existence of a causal curve between (0, x) and (r, y), such that σ̇(s) 6= 0 for all s,
is guaranteed except when x = y and γ is a lightlike pregeodesic, but in that case
y ∈ JΣ+ (x), by definition. For the last assertion, recall Proposition 3.20.            
66                    E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Example 6.14. Even though π : R × M → M is an open map (in agreement with
the fact that IΣ± (x) must be open as so is I ± (0, x)) if, say, J + (0, x) is closed, then
JΣ+ (x) is not necessarily closed. Typically, this happens for “black hole regions”
(recall Section 8.3) even in globally hyperbolic SSTK splittings. Namely, the causal
future of a point (0, x) inside the black hole is closed (as the spacetime is globally
hyperbolic) but its causal future may approach the horizon and never touch it. So,
the projection JΣ+ (x) of J + (0, x) admits as boundary points the projection of points
of the horizon, but these points do not belong to JΣ+ (x0 ).
   One could define the F -separation dF in an analogous way as in the Randers-
Kropina case, by using the infimum of the lengths of the F -admissible (or Σ-
admissible) curves connecting each two points, as well as a Lorentzian separation
dFl by taking the supremum of the Fl -lengths. In fact, if F -admissible curves are
taken, then dF lies again in the case of the F -separation defined for any conic
Finsler structure in [51]. However, as a difference with the Randers-Kropina case,
now discontinuities of dF may appear in non-trivial cases.       Even though some
properties can be proven in this case by using a kind of extended Finsler separa-
tion (see Section 9.2), we will ensure directly the existence of geodesics and their
extremizing properties by using the previously introduced notions.
Theorem 6.15. Let (M, Σ) be a w-convex wind Riemannian structure and let
x0 , y0 ∈ M such that y0 ∈ JΣ+ (x0 ) \ {x0 }. Then:
  (i) There exists a global minimum σ on CxΣ0 ,y0 of the length functional `F which
       is a pregeodesic of (M, Σ), and, when y0 6∈ IΣ+ (x0 ), it is a lightlike pregeodesic
       of the Lorentzian metric −h in (34), up to isolated points where its derivative
       vanishes.
                                                +
 (ii) If R(x0 , y0 ) := sup{r > 0 : y0 ∈ B̂Σ      (x0 , r)} < +∞, there exists a global
                           Σ
       maximum σ on Cx0 ,y0 of the length functional `Fl which is a pregeodesic of
       (M, Σ), and, when y0 6∈ IΣ+ (x0 ), it is a lightlike pregeodesic of the Lorentzian
       metric −h (with non-vanishing derivative).
Proof. (i) Consider the associated SSTK splitting (R × M, g) and recall that w-
convexity implies its causal simplicity (see Theorem 5.9). Given x0 , y0 as above,
                                              +
denote r(x0 , y0 ) := inf{r > 0 : y0 ∈ B̂Σ      (x0 , r)}; notice that 0 < r(x0 , y0 ) < +∞
(the first inequality follows from Proposition 5.1 and the acausality of S0 , the sec-
ond one trivially follows from y0 ∈ JΣ+ (x0 )). The definition of r(x0 , y0 ) and Propo-
sition 5.1 imply that (rn , y0 ) ∈ J + (0, x0 ) for some sequence rn → r(x0 , y0 ) with
rn ≥ r(x0 , y0 ) and, moreover, (r0 , y0 ) 6∈ J + (0, x0 ) if r0 < r(x0 , y0 ). So, (r(x0 , y0 ), y0 )
lies in the boundary of J + (0, x0 ) and causal simplicity implies that this boundary
is contained in J + (0, x0 ). Thus, (0, x0 ) and (r(x0 , y0 ), y0 ) are horismotically re-
lated and any connecting causal curve from (0, x0 ) to (r(x0 , y0 ), y0 ) must be a
lightlike pregeodesic. The projection σ on M of such a pregeodesic is an extrem-
izing pregeodesic of (M, Σ) (recall Corollary 5.3); moreover, σ must be a global
minimum of `F on CxΣ0 ,y0 otherwise a curve σ1 ∈ CxΣ0 ,y0 should exist such that
                                                                      +
`F (σ1 ) < `F (σ) = r(x0 , y0 ). As `F (σ1 ) ≤ `Fl (σ1 ), y0 ∈ B̂Σ      (x0 , `F (σ1 )) in contra-
                                                                    +
diction with the definition of r(x0 , y0 ). In the case y0 6∈ IΣ (x0 ), the velocity of any
connecting Σ-admissible curve must lie in AE \ A at some point and, thus, σ must
belong to case (ii)-(c) of Theorem 6.3 that implies the last conclusion.
    (ii) Notice that the additional hypothesis R(x0 , y0 ) < +∞ allows us to use the
same technique as in the previous part in order to obtain a maximizing pregeodesic
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             67


σ of (M, Σ). However, now the velocity of σ cannot vanish at some (isolated) point
because, in this case, K would be lightlike at that point and one could concatenate
an arbitrary segment of integral curve of K at that point. Thus, R(x0 , y0 ) = +∞,
a contradiction.                                                                 
Example 6.16. Let us observe that if y0 ∈ IΣ+ (x0 ) in the part (i) of last theorem,
this does not necessarily imply that the solution is a pregeodesic of F . This can
happen for example in an SSTK whose associated −h√is Lorentzian and the slice is
compact, as (R × T 2 , g) with g = dt2 + dx2 + dy 2 − 2(dxdt + dtdx) (we consider
the torus T 2 as the quotient of R2 with the identifications (x, y) ∼ (x + 1, y) and
(x, y) ∼ (x, y + 1)). In this case, h = dx2 − dy 2 and (T 2 , −h) is totally vicious, so we
have that y0 ∈ IΣ+ (x0 ) for all x0 , y0 ∈ T 2 . But the spacetime (R × T 2 , g) is globally
hyperbolic and there always exists solution to the associated Zermelo problem,
given by a boundary geodesic in some cases as when we consider x0 = (0, 0) ∈ T 2
and y0 = (s, s) ∈ T 2 , for small s > 0.
  From Proposition 6.6-(ii), we have that w-convexity is satisfied if M is compact,
and then we get immediately:
Corollary 6.17. Let Σ be the wind Riemannian structure determined by a compact
Riemannian manifold (M, gR ) and a vector field W on M . Then for any couple of
points x0 , y0 ∈ M , x0 6= y0 , there exists a curve in CxΣ0 ,y0 which is a minimum of
`F provided that at least a wind curve from x0 to y0 exists.
   Theorem 6.15 gives the last step in the solution to Zermelo’s navigation theo-
rem under any type of (time-independent) wind W in a Riemannian background
(M, gR ). As far as we know, the description of this problem as a Finslerian geodesic
connectedness problem appeared first in [82], under the assumption that the wind
is mild (apart from its time-independence). The case of a wind which is every-
where critical was considered in [89]. Because of its importance, we summarize
and discuss the general solution now.
Corollary 6.18 (Summary of the solution to Zermelo’s problem). Let Σ be the
wind Riemannian structure determined by a Riemannian manifold (M, gR ) and a
vector field W on M and let x0 6= y0 ∈ M :
  (i) If there exists a solution σ to Zermelo navigation connecting x0 to y0 , that is,
      a regular wind curve from x0 to y0 which is a global minimum of the length
      functional `F on CxΣ0 ,y0 , then x0  y0 and σ is a pregeodesic of (M, Σ).
          Moreover, σ is either a pregeodesic for the conic Finsler metric F (and,
      thus, x0 ≺ y0 ), or a lightlike pregeodesic of the Lorentzian metric −h in (34),
      up to isolated points where its derivative vanishes.
 (ii) If x0  y0 and the wind Finslerian structure is w-convex, then there exists a
      solution to Zermelo navigation from x0 to y0 .
Proof. Recall that, by Definition 2.20–(iii), σ is a piecewise smooth, Σ-admissible
curve whose left and right derivatives can vanish only at a finite number of instants
σ(sj ) (being also 0σ(sj ) ∈ Σσ(sj ) and, by Convention 2.19, F (0σ(sj ) = 1). Since
`F (σ) < +∞, we can assume that σ is reparametrized by using its F -length. Then,
σ must be a unit extremizing Σ-geodesic (according to Definition 2.35) because,
otherwise, there would be a connecting wind curve of strictly smaller length. So,
the result follows from the classification of Σ-geodesics in Theorem 6.3. For (ii),
just use Theorem 6.15–(i).                                                         
68                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   In order to apply these results in a practical way, the following comments are in
order (see also Figure 10):

     (1) An obvious necessary condition for the existence of a Zermelo solution be-
         tween x0 , y0 (x0 6= y0 ) is the possibility to travel from the first to the second
         point, that is, y0 ∈ JΣ+ (x0 ). This is a vacuous condition when the wind is
         mild. When the wind is strong (on all M ), the question is reduced to study
         the causal future of x0 for the Lorentzian metric −h; this is a non-trivial
         but typical computation in spacetimes (see, e.g., Example 6.19 and Propo-
         sition 6.23 below). When there are points with critical wind, then the
         precedence relation must be studied specifically there; moreover, the possi-
         bility of travelling between two critical points by moving freely in the region
         of mild wind must be also taken into account. Even though, in principle,
         this may be done directly, from the spacetime viewpoint it becomes equiv-
         alent to the existence of a future-pointing causal curve connecting (0, x0 )
         to ly0 = R × {y0 }).
     (2) In the case that the trip is possible, the possible solutions to Zermelo’s
         navigation must be found in the set of geodesics for the conic Finsler metric
         F and in the set of piecewise smooth lightlike pregeodesics for −h with C 1
         zero velocity at the breaks and non-vanishing second derivative there.
             The possibility of the existence of these last geodesics was pointed out
         by Caratheodory in [27, §282], who studied a time-independent wind on
         a plane. Indeed, he mentioned the possibility of the existence of solutions
         which are limits of maximal and minimal ones and called “anomalous” their
         possible velocity vector fields. In a more modern language, these solutions
         are called abnormal extremals (compare, e.g., with [80, p.54-55], where the
         Zermelo navigation problem on a plane is analysed).
             We have interpreted abnormal extremals in three equivalent ways: (a)
         boundary geodesics of (M, Σ), (b) lightlike pregeodesics (up to a finite
         number of instants where the velocity vanishes) of −h, and (c) projections
         of certain lightlike geodesics in the associated SSTK spacetime.
             From the spacetime viewpont, all Zermelo solutions are projections of
         first arriving future-pointing lightlike pregeodesics connecting (0, x0 ) to
         ly0 = R × {y0 }.
     (3) For the existence of maximizing geodesics, assuming the obvious necessary
         condition R(x0 , y0 ) < +∞ (apart from y0 ∈ JΣ+ (x0 )), the possible maxi-
         mizing curves must be found in the set of geodesics for the Lorentz-Finsler
         metric Fl and in the set of (smooth) lightlike pregeodesics of −h.
             Notice that the maximizing geodesics, if they exist, must be entirely
         contained in the region of strong wind: otherwise, when one crosses a point
         of non-strong wind, one can concatenate a wind curve segment so that
         the curve remains close to this point along an arbitrarily long time, before
         arriving at y0 .
             From the spacetime viewpoint, all maximizing curves are projections
         of last arriving future-pointing lightlike pregeodesics connecting (0, x0 ) to
         ly0 = R × {y0 }.
     (4) In order to ensure the existence of extremals, the condition of w-convexity
         becomes the natural one: (a) it holds when Σ is complete or any of the
         conditions in parts (i) and (ii) of Proposition 6.6 holds, (b) it generalizes
                 WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                       69


       the classical notion of convexity for domains of Riemannian and Finslerian
       manifolds, and (c) as in these geometries, it is related to the convexity of
       the boundary of the domain (see Theorem 6.21 below).
          From the spacetime viewpoint, w-convexity becomes equivalent to the
       causal simplicity of the spacetime, a standard causality condition. As in
       the previous cases, the interpretation in the SSTK has a double interest:
       (i) it may be easier to check, and (ii) it provides the arrival times of the
       extremal geodesics (namely, the t-coordinate at boundary points in ly0 of
       J + (0, x0 ) ∩ ly0 ).
   (5) As in Riemannian Geometry, one can wonder at what extent all the Σ-
       pregeodesics from x0 to y0 are critical points for some length functional.
       The answer to this question (Theorem 7.8) is postponed to the study of a
       new general Fermat’s principle for spacetimes and its adaptation for SSTK
       spacetimes in Section 7.
Example 6.19. The obvious connectivity condition y0 ∈ JΣ+ (x0 )\{x0 } in Zermelo’s
problem may fail even if M is compact. Indeed, consider a sphere S 2 with the
natural metric induced by the Euclidean one and a smooth vector field which is
given in spherical coordinates (θ, φ) by
                                (
                                 0       θ ∈ [0, π/6] ∪ [π/2, π]
                     W (φ, θ) =
                                 f (θ)eθ θ ∈ (π/6, π/2)
where eθ is the unit vector field associated with the latitude coordinate θ and
the function f : [π/6, π/2] → [0, +∞) is smooth, non-negative, equal to 0 at θ =
π/6, π/2, strictly increasing in [π/6, π/4], strictly decreasing otherwise and such
that f (π/4) > 1. Any wind curve from each point x0 in the hemisphere containing
the south pole cannot connect points in the open region containing the north pole
and having as boundary the parallel of latitude θ̄, where θ̄ ∈ (π/4, π/2) is equal
to f −1 (1). In fact, along the line pθ = {(φ, θ) : θ = θ̄}, the set of admissible
velocities for wind curves is included in the tangent half-space containing eθ plus
the zero vectors and therefore any wind curve starting on the region ΩS = {(φ, θ) :
θ > θ̄} must turn back into ΩS when arriving to a point on pθ (compare with
Proposition 6.23 below).
6.4. Further results on existence of geodesics. Our methods can also be ap-
plied to find a solution of Zermelo navigation problem in quite a few interesting
cases. Let us start considering an open subset of a wind Riemannian manifold
(M, Σ) whose boundary satisfies a convexity assumption. We recall first some no-
tions and results about convexity of the boundary of an open subset which have
been studied in [7]. Let D be an open subset of a Finsler manifold (M, F ) with
smooth boundary. We say that D has locally convex boundary if for each x ∈ ∂D
there exists some neighborhood of 0 in Tx ∂D whose images by both the exponen-
tial maps of F and of its reverse Finsler metric F̃ (v) := F (−v) do not intersect
D. This condition is equivalent to the infinitesimal convexity of ∂D (related to
its normal curvature at any point x ∈ ∂D) and will be referred here just as the
(extrinsic) convexity of ∂D. If ∂D is convex and x ∈ ∂D then, [7, Lemma 3.5],
there exists a small enough convex ball (of the metric F ) B + (x, δ) such that for
each x1 , x2 ∈ D ∩ B + (x, δ) the (unique) geodesic in B + (x, δ) which connects x1
with x2 is included in D. The following lemma is a refinement of that result.
70                    E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Lemma 6.20. Let D be an open subset of a Finsler manifold (M, F ) with smooth,
convex boundary and x ∈ ∂D. Then for all x1 , x2 ∈ D̄ ∩ B + (x, δ), δ > 0 small
enough, the (unique) geodesic in B + (x, δ) which connects x1 with x2 is included in
D̄. In particular, if x1 , x2 ∈ ∂D then it is either contained in ∂D ∩ B + (x, δ) or it
is contained in D ∩ B + (x, δ), except for its endpoints, and it is not tangent to ∂D
in the endpoints. This last case always happens if at least one of the points x1 , x2
belongs to D.
Proof. Choosing δ as in the discussion above, only the case when at least one of
the points x1 , x2 belongs to ∂D must be taken into account. Take two sequences
of points {x1k }, {x2k } ⊂ D ∩ B + (x, δ) converging resp. to x1 and x2 . Consider
the geodesics γk connecting x1k with x2k which are contained in D ∩ B + (x, δ), [7,
Lemma 3.5]. By smooth dependence of geodesics in a convex neighborhood from
endpoints, γk converges (in the C 2 -topology) to the geodesic γ connecting x1 and
x2 in B + (x, δ). Thus, γ is contained in D̄ and it is tangent to ∂D when it touches
the boundary away from the endpoints. By the definition of local convexity, this
easily implies that γ is either contained in the boundary or it touches the boundary
transversally at most in the endpoints.                                           
   By using the above lemma and the correspondence between SSTK spacetimes
and wind Riemannian structures, we can prove the existence of a solution to Zermelo
navigation problem in an open subset D ⊂ M such that ∂D is compact. To this
end, we need to consider wind curves whose image is contained in D̄ and we will
                                                                         Σ|D̄
recall this by using the symbol Σ|D̄ . For example, given x0 , y0 ∈ D̄, Cx0 ,y 0 denotes
the subset of wind curves from x0 to y0 with image in D̄.
Theorem 6.21. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian structure, D ⊂ M be a pre-
compact, open subset with smooth boundary ∂D, and let x0 , y0 ∈ D̄ such that
      +
y0 ∈ JΣ| (x0 ) \ {x0 }. Assume that the wind is mild on ∂D and that this boundary
           D̄
                                                                      Σ|
is convex for F . Then there exists a global minimum σ on Cx0 ,y     D̄
                                                                        0 of the length
functional `F and it fulfils one of the following two possibilities:
(a) σ is fully contained in ∂D and, thus, it is a geodesic of both, F and the Finsler
     metric induced by F on ∂D;
(b) σ is contained in D except, at most, its endpoints.
In particular, this last case happens when one of the points x0 , y0 belongs to D.
                                                                               +
Moreover if (b) occurs: (i) σ is a pregeodesic of (M, Σ) and (ii) when y0 6∈ IΣ|    (x0 ),
                                                                                 D̄
then σ is also a lightlike pregeodesic of the Lorentzian metric −h in (34), up to
isolated points where its derivative vanishes.
                +
Proof. As y0 ∈ JΣ| (x0 ) \ {x0 }, the set of wind curves between x0 and y0 whose
                      D̄
                                                                              Σ|
image is contained in D̄ is not empty. We want to find a curve σ ∈ Cx0 ,y
                                                                       D̄
                                                                          0 which
attains the infimum
                            T0 (x0 , y0 ) := inf `F (σ).
                                                 Σ|
                                             σ∈Cx0 D̄
                                                   ,y0

Consider an SSTK spacetime (R × M, g) associated with (M, Σ) (see part (i) of
Theorem 3.10) and the subset of curves

     Cxcc| D̄ = {γ : [a , b ] → R × D̄ ⊂ R × M : γ future-pointing causal continuous,
        0 ,y0          γ γ
                                                                       
                                            γ(aγ ) = (0, x0 ), π γ(bγ ) = y0 , aγ < bγ }
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                  71


(recall Definition 4.4 and the paragraph below it for the notion of causal continuous
curve). Now define
                             T1 (x0 , y0 ) := inf T (γ),
                                                     cc|
                                                       D̄
                                                γ∈Cx0 ,y 0

where T (γ) is the arrival time, namely, the first coordinate of γ(b). Observe that
                                                      Σ|D̄
T1 (x0 , y0 ) ≤ T0 (x0 , y0 ), since each curve in Cx0 ,y  0 can be lifted to a future-pointing
lightlike curve γ(t) = (t, σ(t)) such that `F (σ) = T (γ) (see the proof of Proposi-
tion 5.1). It is enough to prove that the infimum T1 (x0 , y0 ) is attained by a future-
pointing lightlike pregeodesic which, by Theorem 5.5, projects into a pregeodesic σ
of (M, Σ) with `F (σ) = T1 (x0 , y0 ) ≤ T0 (x0 , y0 ). Take a sequence of curves {γk } in
  cc|
Cx0 ,yD̄0 such that limk T (γk ) = T1 (x0 , y0 ), which can be assumed parametrized by
the first coordinate, namely, γk (t) = (t, σk (t)). Then by Lemma 5.7, there exists a
limit curve γ(t) = (t, σ(t)) defined on [0, T1 (x0 , y0 )] which is future-pointing causal
continuous. Let us see that γ is a future-pointing lightlike geodesic:
    Case (i): let us first consider an instant t0 ∈ (0, T1 (x0 , y0 )) such that σ(t0 ) ∈ D.
Then there exists ε > 0 such that γ([t0 − ε, t0 + ε]) ⊂ D. Moreover, if γ|[t0 −ε,t0 +ε]
is not a future-pointing lightlike pregeodesic, there exists a smooth causal curve β
from γ(t0 −ε) to (t0 +ε−, σ(t0 +ε)) for some  > 0. In order to prove the existence of
β recall that by definition of causal continuous curve we can find a piecewise smooth
causal curve close to γ|[t0 −ε,t0 +ε] . Then by [72, Proposition 10.46], if it is not a
future-pointing lightlike pregeodesic, we can find a future-pointing timelike curve
from γ(t0 − ε) to γ(t0 + ε) and the conclusion follows using that the chronological
relation is open. Now consider the concatenation γ̃ = γ|[0,t0 −ε] ∗ β ∗ γ̄, where γ̄(t) =
(t − , σ(t)) is defined in [t0 + ε, T1 (x0 , y0 )]. It turns out that T (γ̃) = T1 (x0 , y0 ) − ,
a contradiction.
    Case (ii): assume now that γ(t0 ) ∈ ∂D for t0 ∈ (0, T1 (x0 , y0 )) and consider
a ball B + (γ(t0 ), δ) as in Lemma 6.20. There exists ε > 0 such that γ|[t0 −ε,t0 +ε]
is contained in B + (γ(t0 ), δ). Moreover, σ|[t0 −ε,t0 +ε] minimizes the F -length from
σ(t0 − ε) to σ(t0 + ε), because otherwise if there exists a shorter curve σ̃, one can
construct a causal continuous curve by concatenation as in case (i), using β(t) =
(t, σ̃(t)) and  = `F (σ) − `F (σ̃). Being σ|[t0 −ε,t0 +ε] F -minimizing, we conclude by
Lemma 6.20 that it is a geodesic contained in ∂D.
    Case (ii) also implies conditions (a) and (b), and the final statement follows from
part (i) of Theorem 6.15.
                                                                                               

Remark 6.22. The last result of convexity can be extended with the same tech-
nique to more general cases. For example, when the wind is mild outside a compact
subset K ⊂ D, ∂D is convex, and D \ K is forward (or backward) complete, in the
sense that any F -geodesic γ : [0, b) → D \ K which is inextendible to b in D \ K, ei-
ther converges to some point in ∂D ∪ K or satisfies b = ∞. Recall also that another
characterizations of this property can be easily obtained from Theorem 2.1 (a),(b)
and (e) in [23] (this includes the compactness of the closed forward balls, which
makes possible to reduce the non-compact case to the solved one in Theorem 6.21).
   Now, let us focus on the case of strong wind. i.e., M = Ml . In the compact
case, the unique condition for the existence of Zermelo solutions is the assumption
of precedence, and it is easy to find conditions ensuring it for any two points.
72                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Proposition 6.23. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian structure with strong wind
and compact M . If the Lorentzian metric −h is endowed with a timelike conformal
Killing vector field then y0 ∈ IΣ± (x0 ), for any couple of points x0 , y0 ∈ M . There-
fore, Zermelo navigation problem has always a solution for any couple of points.
   In particular, such a vector field exists if the strong wind data (gR , W ) satisfy
that W is Killing for gR .
Proof. By [79, Th. 1] a compact Lorentzian manifold M with a timelike confor-
mal Killing vector field is totally vicious, i.e. the chronological future and past
of every point x0 ∈ M are equal to M . Since for a strong wind the chronolog-
ical relation on (M, −h) coincides with the precedence relation on (M, Σ) (recall
last part of Proposition 6.13) the result follows (the assertion on Zermelo follows
from Theorem 6.15-(i)). For the last assertion, just notice that W must be then
also timelike and Killing for −h (use (34) with gR = g0 , Λ = 1 − gR (W, W ) and
ω = −gR (·, W )).                                                                
   For the existence of maximizing geodesics, the (obviously necessary) hypothesis
on R(x0 , y0 ) in Theorem 6.15(ii), never can hold if y0 6∈ Ml . However, the next
lemma provides a natural sufficient condition.
Lemma 6.24. Let x0 , y0 ∈ M and assume that there exists r̄ > 0 such that y0 ∈
  +
B̂Σ (x0 , r̄). Then R(x0 , y0 ) < +∞ whenever (i) the wind is strong (i.e. M = Ml ),
and (ii) the metric −h is globally hyperbolic.
Proof. As global hyperbolicity is preserved by conformal changes, (M, Λ1 h) and
(M, − Λ12 h) are also globally hyperbolic (recall that Λ < 0 if M = Ml ). Since y0 ∈
  +
B̂Σ (x0 , r̄), x0 and y0 are causally related in (M, −h). Thus, by global hyperbolicity,
the length w.r.t. the Lorentzian metric − Λ12 h of all the future-pointing −h-causal
curves between them is bounded (see [8, Lemma 4.5]). Moreover, since they are
causal curves, the length w.r.t. the Riemannian metric − Λ1 g0 is bounded as well
(see [8, p. 76]). As, Λ12 ω(v)2 = Λ12 h(v, v) − Λ1 g0 (v, v), then
                                     r                r
                           1             1                 1
                             ω(v) ≤        h(v, v) + − g0 (v, v)
                           Λ            Λ2                 Λ
for every causal v ∈ T M , which implies that the Fl -length ofpall the Σ-admissible
curves between those two points is bounded (recall that Fl = h/Λ2 + ω/Λ, Fig. 6)
and consequently R(x0 , y0 ) < +∞.                                                    
Example 6.25. The global hyperbolicity of −h is not implied by the global hy-
perbolicity of the SSTK splitting: a counterexample is any SSTK splitting with
compact slices such that K is spacelike; indeed, the SSTK spacetime is globally
hyperbolic (apply part (iii) of Theorem 5.9), but −h can never be globally hy-
perbolic (as compactness implies that it admits closed timelike curves, i.e., −h is
not chronological). An explicit counterexample is the Lorentzian cylinder R × S 1 ,
g = dt2 − 4dtdθ + dθ2 . However, the next lemma shows that the converse holds.
Lemma 6.26. In the case of strong wind, if −h is globally hyperbolic then the
associated SSTK splitting is also globally hyperbolic.
Proof. Since π : (R × M, g) → (M, Λ1 h) is a Lorentzian submersion, one can easily
check that a lift of any Cauchy hypersurface on (M, Λ1 h) is also a Cauchy hyper-
surface of (R × M, g).                                                          
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                    73


The previous lemmas yield a nice result on the existence of maximizing geodesics.
Theorem 6.27. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian structure with strong wind
such that the Lorentzian metric −h is globally hyperbolic. For any x0 ∈ M , if
y0 ∈ JΣ+ (x0 ) \ {x0 } then there exists a global maximum on CxΣ0 ,y0 of the length
functional `Fl .
Proof. Apply Theorem 6.15 by taking into account that Lemma 6.26 ensures w-
convexity and Lemma 6.24 ensures that the hypothesis in the last part of that
theorem is fulfilled.                                                      
   Finally, let us give an application to the existence of closed geodesics12. The
differences between the causal properties of the Lorentzian metric −h on all the
manifold M , and the metric g of the associated SSTK splitting, were stressed in
Example 6.25. They are exploited now to prove the following result.
Theorem 6.28. Let (M, Σ) be a wind Riemannian structure with strong wind. If
M is compact then (M, Σ) admits a closed (non-constant) geodesic.
Proof. Consider the associated SSTK splitting and define:
        T0 = inf {T0 (x)}         where        T0 (x) = inf{T > 0 : (0, x)  (T, x)}.
              x∈M

Notice that T0 < +∞. In fact, any closed timelike curve σ : [0, 1] → M       R sfor −h pro-
vides an SSTK-timelike curve σ̃(s) = (η(s), σ(s)), s ∈ [0, 1], 2η(s) = 0 (F (σ̇(s̄)) +
Fl (σ̇(s̄)))ds̄ from (0, σ(0)) to (T = η(1), σ(0)), so that T0 (σ(0)) < +∞. Notice also
that, as the associated SSTK splitting is strongly causal, T0 (x) > 0 for each x ∈ M
and, whenever T0 (x) < +∞, (0, x) and (T0 (x), x) can be joined by a lightlike ge-
odesic γx (since the associated SSTK splitting is globally hyperbolic, J + (0, x) is
closed, so (T0 (x), x) ∈ J + (0, x) \ I + (0, x)). Now, consider a sequence {xn } ⊂ M
such that T0 (xn ) → T0 and, with no loss of generality, assume that xn → x0 . We
claim that T0 > 0 (see below). Thus, a limit curve γ0 (not reduced to a point) of
the corresponding sequence of curves {γxn } will exist and connect (0, x0 ) to (T0 , x0 )
(so that T0 = T0 (x0 )) and it must be a lightlike pregeodesic too. Hence, being ∂t
spacelike, its image cannot be lx0 and by Theorem 5.5, its projection σ0 = π ◦ γ0
must be a pregeodesic of (M, Σ) with endpoints equal to x0 . In order to check
that σ0 must be closed, assume that σ0 and γ0 are parametrized on [0, 1], extend
σ0 periodically, and extend γ0 accordingly by making it invariant under the trans-
lation (t, x) 7→ (t + T0 , x). If the velocities σ̇0 (0), σ̇0 (1) do not match, then the
points x− = σ0 (1 − ε), x+ = σ0 (ε) on σ0 for some 0 < ε < 1/2 satisfy, by well
known local causality properties of a Lorentzian manifold (applied to (M, −h))
x−  x0  x+ . Accordingly, γ0 (1 − ε) ≤ γ0 (1) ≤ γ0 (1 + ε). As γ0 is a lightlike geo-
desic broken at γ0 (1), we can modify it into a causal curve ρ by putting a timelike
segment from γ0 (1 − ε) to γ0 (1 + ε) and making ρ invariant under the translation
(t, x) 7→ (t + T0 , x) too. Then, there exists a point x̄ ∈ M such that ρ(0) = (0, x̄),
ρ(1) = (T0 , x̄) and ρ|[0,1] is not a lightlike pregeodesic. Therefore, for ε small enough
(0, x̄)  (T0 − ε, x̄), in contradiction with the definition of T0 .
    Claim: T0 > 0.
   12As in the classical Riemannian case, closed is understood here in the sense of smooth periodic.
In the Lorentzian case, closed non-periodic geodesics can exist (they are necessarily lightlike and
incomplete) but, clearly, this possibility cannot occur for wind Riemannian structures.
74                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   Assume, by contradiction, that T0 (xn ) → 0, xn → x0 , and choose a neighborhood
W0 ⊂ M of x0 such that −h restricted to W0 is causal. By Lemma 6.4, there exists
a new neighborhood U0 ⊂ W0 and some ε > 0 such that any Σ-admissible closed
                                                           +
curve starting at any y ∈ U0 and leaving W0 will leave B̂Σ   (y, r), for each r ∈ [0, ε).
Nevertheless, for large n one has xn ∈ U0 and T0 (xn ) < ε. So, the projection σn of
the lightlike geodesic γxn will be a Σ-admissible loop based at xn (thus leaving W0 )
with F -length smaller than ε. As `F (σn ) ≤ `Fl (σn ), each point of σn must belong
     +
to BΣ  (xn , r) for some r ∈ [0, ε), a contradiction.                                  
Remark 6.29. The closed geodesic in Theorem 6.28 corresponds, in the associated
SSTK splitting, to a future-pointing, lightlike geodesic which has closed component
x and connects the points (0, x0 ), (T0 , x0 ) ∈ R × M , for each x0 belonging to the
support of x (these geodesics are called T0 -periodic trajectories in [16, 78, 13]). This
extends to the case of a spacelike Killing vector field K (using the only topological
assumption that M is compact) results on the existence of at least one geometrically
non-trivial, lightlike, T -periodic trajectory, when K is timelike, obtained in [16, 66].
Indeed, the proof of Theorem 6.28 is inspired by a well known result by Tipler [84]
as well as results on T -periodic trajectories in [78] –even though the reader will
find quite a few non-trivial differences. Notice that if the wind were not strong at
some point (non-spacelike K), the previous proof would fail as T0 would be equal
to 0. Nevertheless, in the case of mild wind (timelike K) a closed (non-constant)
geodesic must exist. In fact, this is known for any compact Finsler manifold [60]
and, thus, for Randers ones. Whether a closed geodesic must exist when K is
allowed to be lightlike at some point may deserve a further study. The case when
K is lightlike everywhere has been recently studied in [19].
    To end this section, let us digress on some links to other variational problems on
curves in the literature and possible prospects.
    (1) It is worth to stress that the dynamics of Zermelo’s navigation is not equiv-
alent to the one of a system defined by a Riemannian metric gR and a one-form ω
on a manifold M (a particular case of the so-called magnetic geodesic flow) except,
obviously, if kωkgR < 1 because in this case both problems are then described by
standard Finsler geometry.13
    (2) Nevertheless, one can find a parallelism between Zermelo navigation problem
and the problem of the existence of timelike or causal curves ρ connecting two events
z0 , w0 in a spacetime L which are critical for the action functional associated with
an electromagnetic field for some prescribed charge-to-mass ratio q/m (so that the
timelike critical curves are solutions to the corresponding Euler-Lagrange equation,
i.e., the Lorentz force equation for q/m, see e.g. [24, 69, 70]). These curves can be
interpreted, say, in the case when q/m > 0, as those lightlike geodesics for a Kaluza-
Klein spacetime L × R which locally minimize the natural arrival coordinate at
{w0 }×R, see [70, Theorem 4.1]. Even though the natural projection y : L×R → R
is not a temporal function for the Kaluza Klein metric, the natural vector field ∂y
is Killing. The similarities between the SSTK approach for Zermelo navigation and
   13In fact, at the points p ∈ M where kω k
                                              p gR > 1, the Lagrangian for magnetic trajectories
        p
L(v) = gR (v, v) + ω(v), v ∈ T M , has “indicatrix” {v ∈ Tp M : L(v) = 1} which is an unbounded
hypersurface. Observe also that the Lagrangian F in the Zermelo navigation problem is formally
identical to L in the regions of mild and strong wind, but the metric under the square root in F ,
namely h̃, is a signature-changing metric: specifically, it changes from Riemannian to Lorentzian
(with signature (+, −, . . . , −)).
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                    75


the Kaluza-Klein for electromagnetism suggests the following navigation problem,
whose electromagnetic analogous was solved in [70]:
   Consider classes of wind curves from x0 to y0 which are homotopic through
F - (resp. Σ-) wind curves, and determine when such a class admits an F -length
minimizing (or Fl -length maximizing) curve.
   Even though, in principle, our techniques would allow one to ensure the exis-
tence of Σ-wind curves (under background hypotheses such as completeness or w-
convexity), subtleties would appear for the existence of critical F -wind curves when
x0 ≺ y0 . This problem has a parallelism with the existence of critical points for
the electromagnetic action in timelike or causal homotopy classes, where very pre-
cise results (which ensure the existence of timelike critical curves, not only lightlike
ones) have been obtained, [70, Theorems 4.2 and 5.1]. Although such techniques
seem translatable here, they would require the developing of further notions on
wind geodesics (such as cut points) and, so, this will not be studied here.

 7. Fermat’s principle and generalized Zermelo navigation problem.
7.1. A new problem: Fermat’s principle for arbitrary arrival curves. In
optics, Fermat’s principle is a variational principle for light rays. Its formula-
tions in general relativity, as e.g. in [57, 74, 41, 75], involve a prescribed event (a
point p on the Lorentzian manifold L modeling the spacetime, which represents the
event of light reception), the world-line of a light source (a timelike injective curve
α : (a, b) → L), intersecting the causal past of p, an “arrival time functional” (the
proper time in which the light source emitted the light signals). If some matter
distribution (one or more galaxies, dark matter, etc., encoded in the spacetime
metric g) is present between the source and the observer, it can cause the bending
of light producing then the so-called gravitational lensing .14 From a geometric
point of view, this configuration is equivalent to the case to be considered here
when the light source emits the signals at a given event p and the timelike curve
α, intersecting the causal future of p, is the world line of an observer (so that, the
name “arrival time functional” is justified). From the properties of chronological
and causal futures, it is easy to check that if there exists a lightlike (or causal)
curve where the absolute maximum or minimum arrival time to α is achieved, this
curve must be a lightlike pregeodesic. This is a consequence of the fact that the
arrival point would be horismotically related to p and this would hold even if α
is not timelike. However, Fermat’s principle states that the set of critical points
of the arrival time is equal to the set of lightlike pregeodesics connecting p and α
and the timelike character of α is required then. As emphasized by V. Perlick, no
external notion of time is necessary, but just the arrival instant t̄ with respect to
the proper time parametrization of α.
   Nevertheless, in an SSTK splitting, it is natural to consider the temporal function
t and then to ask if Fermat’s principle holds when considering a point and an integral
line of the Killing field ∂t (we recall that an integral curve lx1 , x1 ∈ M , of ∂t can be
parametrized with the temporal function t of the SSTK splitting, so that the arrival
time functional makes still sense). We emphasize that lx1 can be spacelike or lightlike
now (the case when the Killing vector field is timelike is well known, see [39, 21])
   14Some causality conditions, as global hyperbolicity or stable causality are also usually assumed
for Morse theory of light rays, often used in the study of gravitational lensing by variational
methods, compare e.g. [85, 40].
76                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


and these possibilities have a clear interpretation in Zermelo’s navigation problem
since the travel time can be identified, up to an initial constant, with the arrival
time functional of the associated SSTK splitting. Indeed, Fermat’s principle can
be viewed as a variational principle for a generalized Zermelo’s navigation problem,
namely: look not only for the quickest navigation paths but also for any path
that makes critical the time of navigation between two given points x0 , x1 ∈ M .
These paths will be the projections on M of the paths in R × M which are critical
for the arrival time functional at lx1 defined on the set of the piecewise smooth
future-pointing lightlike curves connecting p0 = (t0 , x0 ) to lx1 .
   Summing up, a Fermat’s principle in SSTK spacetimes valid for lightlike curves
from p0 to any (timelike, spacelike or lightlike) lx1 would allow an interpretation of
all the geodesics of a wind Riemannian structure as critical points for the arrival
functional. However, this problem poses a general mathematical question for Fer-
mat’s principle: when one considers the critical lightlike curves starting at a point
p0 and arriving at a curve α in an arbitrary spacetime, is it necessary to impose a
prescribed causal character or any other hypotheses on α?
   At first glance, two natural restrictions appear: (a) a connecting lightlike curve
γ that is orthogonal to α at the arrival point zα would not be permitted (otherwise,
γ could be a lightlike pregeodesic which coincided with α in a left neighborhood
of the end-point and, thus, γ would not be a critical point) and (b) α must be an
embedded curve, that is, on the one hand its velocity must not be zero (in order
to avoid bothering requirements on the variations); on the other, self-intersections
or cases where the induced topology on the image is coarser than the one coming
from an immersion should be excluded (in order to define properly the Fermat
functional as the value of the parameter of α at the arrival point). Recall that
these conditions are assumed in previous results, in fact, the requirements (a) and
(b), the latter at least locally, hold classically as α is assumed to be a timelike
curve; nevertheless in all the proofs we are aware of, the timelike character of α
appears to be a fundamental assumption (compare [85, Lemma 2.5], [74, Lemma
3], [3, Lemma 2.1], [41, Remark 3.3]).
   In the next subsection we will check that, amazingly, these two conditions are
enough for a consistent general Fermat’s principle in spacetimes (Theorem 7.4).
Moreover, in the last subsection we will prove that the particular structure of SSTK
spacetimes makes unnecessary assumption (a) when α is a line lx1 (63 p0 ), (of course,
in this case, (b) is satisfied) and, even more, sharper conclusions can be obtained
(Theorem 7.8).

7.2. A general Fermat’s Principle. Our aim is to establish a Fermat’s principle
between a point p0 and an arbitrary smooth embedded curve α for an arbitrary
spacetime (L, g).
   Given a vector field ξ = ξ(s) along a curve γ, we will denote by ξ 0 its covariant
derivative Dξ
            ds with respect to the Levi-Civita connection of g. Let us introduce the
variational approach for Fermat’s principle.
Definition 7.1. Let (L, g) be any spacetime, α : (ā, b̄) → L a smooth embedded
curve in L, p0 ∈ L. Fix an interval [a, b] (eventually normalized to [0, 1]), and put

     Np0 ,α = {γ : [a, b] → L : γ piecewise smooth, future-pointing lightlike,
                                                  and γ(a) = p0 , γ(b) ∈ Im(α)}   (48)
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                              77


  (i) The arrival functional T : Np0 ,α → R is defined as
                                   T (γ) = α−1 (γ(b))                                  (49)
   (ii) An admissible variation χ of γ ∈ Np0 ,α is a C 1 map χ : (−ε, ε) × [a, b] →
                                                                         ∂2χ      ∂2χ
L which has, at least, continuous second order mixed derivatives ∂w∂s         , ∂s∂w   on
                                      D ∂χ     D ∂χ
(−ε, ε)×[sj , sj+1 ] (so that, there, dw ∂s = ds ∂w ), where a = s1 < s2 < . . . < sn = b
is a subdivision of the interval [a, b], and such that γw := χw = χ(w, ·) ∈ Np0 ,α ,
for all w ∈ (−ε, ε), and χ0 = γ. The variational vector field Z associated with an
                                   ∂χ
admissible variation is Z(s) = ∂w     (0, s).
   (iii) A curve z ∈ Np0 ,α is a critical point of the arrival functional if, for every
                                d
variation γw , we have that dw    T (γw )|w=0 = 0.
  A basic fact in the proof of the next Lemma is that any m-dimensional spacetime
can be locally described as a product manifold (c, d) × Ω, where Ω is an open, m − 1
dimensional, smooth manifold endowed with the metric
                  g((τ, v), (τ, v)) = −Λt (x)τ 2 + 2ω t (v)τ + g0t (v, v)              (50)
                                                                              t    t
where (τ, v) ∈ T(t,x) ((c, d) × Ω) ≡ R × Tx Ω and for every t ∈ (c, d), Λ , ω and
g t are respectively a function, a one-form and a Riemannian metric in Ω (under
the analogous to (27)). Observe that the coordinate t ∈ (c, d) also determines a
temporal function of ((c, d) × Ω, g) as for an SSTK spacetime. Thus, this time-
orientation and a notation consistent with the previously introduced one for the
SSTK case will be used; for example, the line lx1 = {(s, x1 ) : s ∈ (c, d)} for every
x1 ∈ Ω. In particular, a vector field Z along a curve γ with image in (c, d) × Ω will
be denoted by Z(s) = (Y (s), W (s)).
Lemma 7.2. Let (L, g) be a spacetime, p0 ∈ L and α : (ā, b̄) → L be any
smooth, embedded curve in L. Assume that γ : [a, b] → L is a piecewise smooth
future-pointing lightlike curve from p0 to Im(α), such that γ̇(b) is not orthogonal to
α̇(T (γ)). Then there exists a partition s0 = a < s1 < . . . < sn = b of the interval
[a, b] and n open subsets U1 , U2 , . . . , Un ⊂ L such that γ is smooth in [sj , sj+1 ]
with γ([sj , sj+1 ]) ⊂ Ui+1 for i = 0, . . . , n − 1. Moreover, each Uj is of the type
(−εj , εj ) × Ωj and the metric g is written as in (50) with ∂t nowhere orthogonal to
γ, and α an integral curve for ∂t or −∂t in Un .
Proof. As a first step, recall that there exists a vector field X defined on all M such
that X is not orthogonal (thus, neither tangent) to γ at any point and α is the
integral curve of X on a neighborhood W of q = γ(b) = α(T (γ)). Indeed, take any
future-pointing timelike vector field X1 on M , which is necessarily non-orthogonal
to γ̇, as the latter is lightlike, and a second vector field X2 on a neighborhood W
of q, so that α is the integral curve of X2 through q (this can be done for example
by considering adapted coordinates to α). Assume that g(γ̇(b), X2 ) < 0 (otherwise,
replace X2 with −X2 ) and reduce the neighborhood W where X2 is defined in such
a way that g(γ̇(s), X2 ) < 0 whenever γ(s) ∈ W . Then, choose a bump function
µ with support in W and µ = 1 on a smaller neighborhood W 0 of q, and put
X = (1 − µ)X1 + µX2 on all M .
   For every s ∈ [a, b], choose a spacelike hypersurface Ωs transverse to X and
containing γ(s) with X and γ̇(s) in the same side. Moving Ωs with the flow of X
one obtains a neighborhood Us of γ(s). Now, taking a Lebesgue number for the
covering Us of Im(γ) (using an auxiliary Riemannian metric in L) one obtains the
78                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


required sequence a = s0 < · · · < sn = b. Finally, we can add the possible breaks of
γ to the subset s0 , s1 , . . . , sn , dividing every subinterval [sj , sj+1 ] in a finite number
of intervals and considering the subset Uj+1 in all of them.                                   

Lemma 7.3. Let (L, g), p0 and α as in Lemma 7.2. Let Z be a piecewise smooth
vector field along γ with Z(a) = 0 and Z(b) proportional to α̇(T (γ)). Then Z is
the variational vector field of a variation by lightlike curves from p0 to Im(α) if and
only if g(γ̇, Z 0 ) = 0.
Proof. The implication to the right follows observing that g(γ̇w , γ̇w ) = 0, for all w,
                                                                                     D ∂χ
and then differentiating both sides of this equality w.r.t. w, using that dw             ∂s =
D ∂χ                                                         0
ds ∂w   and    evaluating   in w =  0, we  get that g( γ̇, Z   ) = 0. For the converse, let us
make some previous considerations for the case of a smooth curve γ : [a1 , b1 ] → L
contained in one of the local splittings (c, d) × Ω in Lemma 7.2. Setting then
γ = (θ, σ), Z = (Y, W ) and given a smooth curve x : [a1 , b1 ] → Ω, one has that
(t, x) : [a1 , b1 ] → (c, d) × Ω is a lightlike curve if and only if
                            −Λt (x)ṫ2 + 2ω t (ẋ)ṫ + g0t (ẋ, ẋ) = 0.
It follows that x can be lifted to a smooth lightlike curve in ((c, d) × Ω, g) whenever
one of the differential equations
                                             g t (ẋ, ẋ)
                         ṫ =              p 0                                              (51)
                                −ω t (ẋ) ± ω t (ẋ)2 + Λt (x)g0t (ẋ, ẋ)
has a solution in [a1 , b1 ] which takes values in (c, d). Observe that, as the initial
curve γ(s) = (θ(s), σ(s)) is future-pointing, i.e., θ̇ > 0, and nowhere orthogonal to
∂t , i.e., ω θ(s) (σ̇(s)) − Λθ(s) (σ(s))θ̇(s) 6= 0, for all s ∈ [a1 , b1 ], the same properties
hold for nearby curves and we will assume them for the curve constructed from x(s)
and the corresponding t(s) whenever x(s) is a longitudinal curve for some variation
of σ. In particular, whenever Λt vanishes, ẋ cannot vanish and, moreover, (51)
holds with ω t (ẋ) < 0 and the choice of sign + in the denominator. Recall that
neither ẋ can vanish when Λt 6= 0 (otherwise ∂t would be non-null but proportional
to the velocity (ṫ, ẋ) of the lifted lightlike curve). In conclusion, the right-hand side
of (51) is well-defined and smooth on [a1 , b1 ], so that the lift can be carried out on
all [a1 , b1 ] and its t-component remains C 1 close to the t-component of γ if x is C 1
close enough to σ (in particular, the t-component is contained in (c, d)).
    Consider now a piecewise smooth vector field Z along γ such that g(Z 0 , γ̇) = 0.
Assume that γ has breaks at most at a = s0 < s1 < s2 < . . . < sn = b and let us
consider n open subsets Uj , j ∈ {1, . . . , n} as in Lemma 7.2. Let us denote γ|[a,s1 ]
as (θ(1) , σ (1) ) on U1 and write consistently Z = (Y1 , W1 ) along [a, s1 ]. Consider
a variation χ̄1 : (−ε, ε) × [a, s1 ] → Ω1 of σ with variational vector field W1 and
fixed initial point (the latter can be imposed as necessarily W1 (a) = 0). Thus,
up to reducing ε, χ̄1 : (−ε, ε) × [a, s1 ] → Ω1 can be lifted to a (unique) variation
χ̃1 : (−ε, ε) × [a, s1 ] → (c, d) × Ω1 by lightlike curves in [a, s1 ] with fixed initial
point p0 , and which has Z̃ 1 = (Ỹ1 , W1 ) as variational vector field. The fact that
this variation is given by lightlike curves departing from p0 implies that
                      g(Z̃10 , γ̇) = 0 with Z˜1 (a) = 0,         on [a, s1 ].               (52)
In particular, as W1 was prescribed, the function Ỹ1 is determined by the differential
equation (52). In fact, denoting the components of Z̃10 by (Ỹ10 , W10 ), this is the
                     WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                                  79


equation
                                 (1)                             (1)          (1)
        − Λ(σ (1) )θ̇(1) + ω θ         (σ̇ (1) ) Ỹ10 + θ̇(1) ω θ (W10 ) + g0θ (σ̇ (1) , W10 ) = 0.
                                                
                                                                                                          (53)
                          (1)
As −Λ(σ (1) )θ̇(1) + ω θ (σ̇ (1) ) = g(γ̇, ∂t )|[a,s1 ] 6= 0, for all s ∈ [a, s1 ] and taking into
account the expression of the covariant derivative Z̃10 = (Ỹ10 , W10 ), (53) can be put in
normal form. As Y1 is also a solution of (52), we conclude that Ỹ1 = Y1 on [a, s1 ],
and therefore, Z|[a,s1 ] is the variational vector of a variation by lightlike curves,
as required. Finally, proceed inductively by considering analogously χ̄i : (−ε, ε) ×
[si−1 , si ] → Ωi with χ̄i (w, si ) = χ̄i−1 (w, si ) and, when i = n, with fixed endpoint at
σ(b). Recall that these variations are lifted to variations χ̃i : (−ε, ε) × [si−1 , si ] →
(c, d)×Ωi by lightlike curves which match in the required one χ : (−ε, ε)×[a, b] → L
after n steps, as χ̃i (w, si ) = χ̃i−1 (w, si ) for w ∈ (−ε, ε).                                
  Now, we are ready to give the extension of Fermat’s principle; our approach here
has been inspired by [3].
Theorem 7.4 (Generalized Fermat’s principle). Let (L, g) be any spacetime and
α : (ā, b̄) → L a smooth embedded curve. Assume that γ : [a, b] → L is a piecewise
smooth future-pointing lightlike curve from p0 to Im(α), such that γ̇(b) is not or-
thogonal to α. Then, γ : [a, b] → L is a critical point of the arrival functional T if
and only if it is a pregeodesic.
                                                                  d
Proof. By definition, γ is a critical point of T if and only if dw  T (γw )|w=0 = 0 for
every admissible variation γw . By Lemma 7.3, this is equivalent to Z(b) = 0 for
any variational vector field Z along γ since
                 d                d                    d
        Z(b) =     γw (b) |w=0 =    α(T (γw )) |w=0 =    T (γw ) |w=0 ·α̇(T (γ)).
                dw               dw                   dw
Let U be a vector field along γ which is not orthogonal to γ at each point γ(s) and
it is proportional to α̇(T (γ)) at s = b (recall the proof of Lemma 7.2). Observe
that, given any vector field W along γ with W (a) = W (b) = 0, we can obtain a
vector field corresponding to an admissible variation as
                                       ZW (s) = W (s) + fW (s)U (s),                                      (54)
where
                       Z s                                             Z s
                             g(W 0 , γ̇) ρ                                    g(U 0 , γ̇)
  fW (s) = −e−ρ(s)                      e dµ and ρ(s) =                                   dµ ,   ∀s ∈ [a, b].
                         a    g(U, γ̇)                                  a     g(U, γ̇)
                                                                                   (55)
Moreover, all the admissible vector fields can be obtained in this way. Indeed,
assume that Z is admissible and consider W (s) = Z(s) − (c(s − a)/(b − a)) U ,
where c is the constant that satisfies Z(b) = cU (b). Now observe that the difference
ZW (s) − Z(s) = (fW (s) − c(s − a)/(b − a))U is also admissible, but it has to be zero.
The reason is that any admissible vector field p · U , with p : [a, b] → R a smooth
function such that p(a) = 0, has to be zero, since it must satisfy
                                        ṗ · g(U, γ̇) + p · g(U 0 , γ̇) = 0
and g(U, γ̇) cannot vanish. So, Z = ZW follows, and γ will be a critical point if
and only if ZW (b) = 0 for every W as above. This is equivalent to fW (b) = 0 or,
from the explicit formula (55),
                               Z b
                                   g(W 0 , γ̇) ρ
                                              e dµ = 0.                      (56)
                                a g(U, γ̇)
80                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Now, if γ is a critical point, we can choose W such that W (si ) = 0 in all the breaks.
Applying integration by parts,
                                  Z b
                                      g(W, (ϕγ̇)0 )dµ = 0                          (57)
                                 a

where ϕ = eρ /g(U, γ̇). Then (ϕγ̇)0 = 0 outside the breaks, which implies directly
that γ is a piecewise pregeodesic. Moreover, if there were a break at some si ∈ (a, b)
then, for every w ∈ Tγ(si ) L, one could choose a vector field W along γ such that
W (si ) = w and W is zero in the other breaks (as well as in the endpoints). Then,
consider ZW given by (54) and apply integration by parts to (56) again in order to
obtain
                                    γ̇(s+                 γ̇(s−
                                                                       
                                         i )                   i )
               g w, eρ (si )                       −                        =0
                               g(U (si ), γ̇(s+
                                              i ))   g(U (si ), γ̇(s−
                                                                    i ))
                                                −
for all w ∈ Tγ(si ) L. That is, γ̇(s+
                                    i ) and γ̇(si ) are proportional and γ could be
reparametrized as a smooth lightlike pregeodesic.
   Conversely, if γ is a pregeodesic, we can reparametrize it as a geodesic (with
no breaks in the parametrization) as the value of the arrival time functional would
remain unchanged. However, for a geodesic the function ϕ is clearly a constant,
which allows us to obtain (57) and, finally, (56).
                                                                                 

   Some extensions of the Generalized Fermat’s Principle are still possible as for
example when one considers timelike curves rather than lightlike ones. This case
becomes meaningful if one prescribes a fixed length c for all the timelike curves from
p0 to α. In order to reduce this case to the lightlike one, consider the extended
                               ∗
spacetime (L × R, g̃), g̃ = πL   g + du2 , where πL is the canonical projection of L × R
onto L. It is straightforward to check that, for any lightlike geodesic γ̃ : [a, b] →
L × R, γ̃(s) = (γ(s), u(s)), of the metric g̃, the component γ is a causal geodesic of
(L, g) and the component u satisfies u̇2 ≡ const. := c2 /(b − a)2 . Thus, for any point
p0 ∈ L and any smooth embedded curve α, Theorem 7.4 applied to the spacetime
(L × R, g̃), the point (p0 , 0) and the curve α̃(s) = (α(s), c), c > 0, gives:
Corollary 7.5. Let (L, g) be a spacetime and α : (ā, b̄) → L be a smooth embedded
curve. Assume that γ : [a, b] → L is a piecewise smooth future-pointing timelike
                                                     Rbp
curve from p0 ∈ L to Im(α), with Lorentzian length a −g(γ̇, γ̇)ds = c, such that
γ̇(b) is not orthogonal to α. Then, γ : [a, b] → L is a critical point of the arrival
functional T defined on the set of the piecewise smooth timelike curves joining p0
to Im(α) and having fixed Lorentzian length c if and only if it is a pregeodesic.
   As a final application, observe that the generalized Fermat’s principle can be
even applied in a purely Riemannian setting. Given a Riemannian manifold (M, h),
x0 ∈ M and α : (ā, b̄) → M a smooth embedded curve, let us introduce the following
two spaces of paths between x0 and Im(α):
       Lx0 ,α,c = {x : [a, b] → M : x piecewise smooth
                      and x(a) = x0 , x(b) ∈ Im(α) with `h (x) = c},
       Fx0 ,α = {x : [a, b] → M : x piecewise smooth
                      and x(a) = x0 , x(b) ∈ Im(α) with `h (x) = α−1 (x(b))},
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             81

              Rb                  p
where `h (x) = a kẋkh ds, kẋkh = h(ẋ, ẋ), and c is any constant greater than the
distance between x0 and Im(α). Let the arrival functional T defined as T (x) =
α−1 (x(b)).
Corollary 7.6. Let (M, h) be a Riemannian manifold and α : (ā, b̄) → M a smooth
embedded curve. Let x : [a, b] → M be a piecewise smooth curve with x(a) = x0 ,
x(b) ∈ Im(α).
     (i) If x ∈ Lx0 ,α,c and ẋ(b) is not orthogonal to α, then x is a critical curve of
         the arrival functional T on the space Lx0 ,α,c if and only if x is a pregeodesic
         of (M, h).
    (ii) If x ∈ Fx0 ,α and
                                                      
                                     ẋ(b)
                               h            , α̇(T (x)) 6= 1,                        (58)
                                   kẋ(b)kh
         then x is a critical curve of the arrival functional T on the space Fx0 ,α if
         and only if x is a pregeodesic of (M, h).
Proof. It follows from Theorem 7.4 by considering the spacetime (R × M, g) with
g((τ, v), (τ, v)) = −τ 2 + h(v, v). Then any curve x : [a, b] → M lifts      Rsp to a unique
future-pointing lightlike curve (t, x) : [a, b] → R × M with t(s) = a h(ẋ, ẋ)dµ.
Moreover, lift α to the curve (ā, b̄) 3 t̄ → α̃(t̄) = (c, α(t̄)) ∈ R × M for statement (i)
and to (ā, b̄) 3 t̄ → α̃(t̄) = (t̄, α(t̄)) ∈ R × M , for (ii). The conclusions are obtained
by observing that (ṫ(b), ẋ(b)) is not orthogonal to α̃ if and only if, (i), ẋ(b) is not
orthogonal to α and (ii) (58) holds.                                                      
Remark 7.7. While the result in (i) is immediately seen as a variational principle
for geodesics with fixed length between a point and a curve, (ii) might require more
explanation. In fact, it can be interpreted in the following (non-relativistic) way.
The curve α is parametrized by a classical time t and then α describes the motion
of some target vehicle with arbitrary (but non-vanishing) speed. The curves in
Fx0 ,α are the trajectories followed by some tracker starting at x0 . As the length of
the trajectories is independent of the parametrization, one can assume (neglecting
the curves with speed vanishing at non-isolated points) that the tracker moves at
constant speed. As a first approach, this speed can be assumed to be equal to 1 so
that each trajectory γ is parametrized by t in the interval [0, `h (γ)]. Now, the space
Fx0 ,α contains all the trajectories such that the tracker catches the target, being the
arrival functional T just the exact time (or length of γ) necessary for this aim. The
corollary asserts that the geodesics coincide with the critical points of T whenever
the inequality (58) holds. As an interpretation of this inequality, notice that, if the
component of the velocity of the target at the instant of the meeting in the direction
of ẋ(b) were equal exactly to ẋ(b) then, even if x were a geodesic, variations in the
trajectory of the tracker might remain catching the target in subsequent instants.
In particular, when the velocity of α were equal to ẋ(b), these variations could be
obtained simply by prolonging x with (a reparametrization of) α beyond b.
7.3. Fermat’s principle for SSTK spacetimes. For SSTK spacetimes, the curve
α will be taken just equal to a line lx1 parametrized with the global time function
t : R × M → R so that the space Np0 ,α in (48) is written now Np0 ,lx1 with
p0 = (t0 , x0 ). Moreover, the arrival functional (49) becomes now a true arrival time
functional
                                     T (γ) = t(γ(b))                              (59)
82                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


for future-pointing lightlike curves γ ∈ Np0 ,lx1 (γ : [a, b] → L = R × M ). Notice
that γ is a critical point for T on Np0 ,lx1 if and only if
                                dtγ(b) (Z(b))(= Y (b)) = 0                             (60)
for the variational vector field Z(s) = (Y (s), W (s)) of any variation γw of γ in
Np0 ,lx1 . We will assume the non-triviality assumption p0 6∈ Im(α) i.e. x0 6= x1 (see
Remark 7.9). Now, we are ready for the general version of Fermat’s principle for
SSTK spacetimes.
Theorem 7.8. Let (R × M, g) be an SSTK as in (26), x0 , x1 ∈ M , x0 6= x1 ,
p0 = (t0 , x0 ) and γ ∈ Np0 ,lx1 , γ(s) = (ζ(s), x(s)). Then,
     (1) if γ is a critical point of the arrival time functional T on Np0 ,lx1 , then it is
         a lightlike pregeodesic of (R × M, g);
     (2) if γ is a lightlike geodesic of (R × M, g) and Cγ = g(∂t , γ̇) then one of the
         following three exclusive possibilities occurs:
           (i) Cγ < 0, ẋ lies in A, x is a pregeodesic of F parametrized with h(ẋ, ẋ) =
               const., γ is a critical point of T and
                                                Z s
                                 ζ(s) = ζ(a) +      F (ẋ)dτ.
                                                a

          (ii) Cγ > 0, ẋ lies in Al (so that Λ < 0 on all x), x is a pregeodesic of Fl
               parametrized with h(ẋ, ẋ) = const., γ is a critical point of T and
                                              Z s
                                ζ(s) = ζ(a) +     Fl (ẋ)dτ.
                                                a

         (iii) Cγ = 0, ẋ lies in AE \ A (so that Λ ≤ 0 on all x), whenever it remains
               in Ml , x is a lightlike geodesic of h/Λ such that −ω(ẋ) > 0 and x
               lies in Mcrit only at the isolated points where ẋ vanishes; moreover, ζ
               satisfies
                                             Z s
                                                 g0 (ẋ, ẋ)
                               ζ(s) = ζ(a) −                 dτ,
                                              a    ω(ẋ)
               for all s ∈ [a, b].
Proof. (1) Let us distinguish three cases:
   Case (a). Assume that there is an instant s0 ∈ (a, b) such that x is F -admissible.
We can also assume that γ is smooth in s0 , otherwise just choose a close instant
to s0 where γ is still F -admissible and smooth. Now, notice that the restriction
γ|[a,s0 ] must be a critical point of the arrival time functional on Np0 ,lx(s0 ) . In fact,
                                (s )
otherwise, take a variation γw 0 which contradicts the critical character of γ|[a,s0 ]
and put
                   t(r) (w) = t(γw
                                 (s0 )
                                       (r)) − t(γ(r)), a ≤ r ≤ s0
                                                                          (s )
Taking into account that ∂t is a Killing vector field, each curve γw 0 can be con-
catenated with the curve s 7→ (ζ(s) + t(s0 ) (w), x(s)), s ∈ [s0 , b], in contradiction
with the critical character of γ. Thus, Theorem 7.4 is applicable to γ|[a,s0 ] , and this
piece of γ must be a pregeodesic. Now observe that we can consider the reverse
problem because, reversing the parametrization of γ, it becomes a critical curve
for the arrival time functional between (t(γ(b)), x1 ) and the line lx(s0 ) (notice that
all the longitudinal curves of a variation γw of γ can be shifted in −t(b) (w) by the
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             83


flow of ∂t ). Then one also has that γ|[s0 ,b] must be a pregeodesic (which matches
smoothly with the first piece), as required.
   Case (b). Assume that x is constant in an open interval (s0 − δ, s0 + δ) (so
that ∂t is lightlike at x(s0 )). In this case, (ζ, x) cannot be a critical point of the
arrival time. In fact, consider a variational vector field which is Z(s) = f (s)∂t
with f (s) = 0 for every s ∈ [a, s0 − δ] and f (s) = 1 for every s ∈ [s0 + δ, b] and
the associated variation xw = x and ζw (s) = ζ(s) + wf (s) for every w ∈ (−ε, ε),
being ε > 0 small enough in such a way that ζ̇w (s) = ζ̇(s) + wf˙(s) > 0 for every
s ∈ (s0 − δ, s0 + δ). Then dT (Z) = dtγ(b) (Z(b)) = 1 6= 0.
   Case (c). The only case left is when ẋ(s) ∈ (AE \ A) for every s ∈ [a, b] and
it is not zero in any subinterval. Moreover, we can also assume that ẋ(s) never
vanishes and, so, x(s) lies in Ml and it is a piecewise smooth lightlike curve of
the Lorentzian metric −h. Indeed, if this case is solved, then, for any interval
J = [ā, b̄] ⊂ [a, b] such that x|J is smooth and strictly regular (ẋ(s) 6= 0 for every
s ∈ J) then γ|J will be a lightlike pregeodesic. As by Case (b), the set of zeroes
does not contain intervals, then, the claimed case implies that γ fulfils the equation
of the pregeodesics Dg γ̇/ds = f · γ̇ in an open dense subset D of [a, b], for some
smooth function f on D. Being γ piecewise smooth and γ̇ non-vanishing, f can
be smoothly extended to all [a, b] except at most to the breaks, and γ becomes a
piecewise smooth lightlike pregeodesic. Moreover, if a break s0 ∈ (a, b) appeared,
                              −
the case ẋ(s+0 ) = 0 (or ẋ(s0 ) = 0) could not hold. Indeed, otherwise Λ(x(s0 )) = 0,
and this implies (AE \ A) ∩ Tx(s0 ) M = {0}. Thus, ẋ(s−                    −           +
                                                            0 ) = 0 and γ̇(s0 ) and γ̇(s0 )
become proportional, which implies that γ admits a reparametrization as a smooth
                                                      −
geodesic. Of course, the case when ẋ(s+     0 ), ẋ(s0 ) are both different from 0 can
hold and will be taken into account (indeed, the solution in the smooth case would
imply that γ is a piecewise pregeodesic with C = 0 and, thus, its projection x(s)
would be a piecewise lightlike pregeodesic of (M, −h), recall Corollary 5.6). As a
technical detail, the conformal Lorentzian metric −h̃ := −h/Λ2 will be used in the
remainder (consistently with (19)). This is equivalent to the usage of −h as only
lightlike curves and pregeodesics will be concerned, and allows us to express easily
the associated Fermat metrics
                                ω p                      ω p
                           F = + h̃               Fl = − h̃                           (61)
                                Λ                        Λ
(recall Proposition 3.12 and equation (33)), where Λ < 0.
    So, assume that x is a piecewise smooth lightlike curve in (Ml , −h̃). In partic-
ular, the lightlike curve γ is univocally reconstructed from x plus its initial point
(Corollary 3.13 (c2) is applicable to ẋ(s)) and g(γ̇, ∂t ) ≡ 0 (from the interpretation
of h, see (35)). In the case that x is also a (smooth) pregeodesic, Corollary 5.6
implies that γ is a lightlike pregeodesic too. Otherwise, we can find a variation xw
of x by means of timelike curves of −h̃ for every w ∈ (0, ε) with variational vector
field ξ such that h̃(ξ 0 , ẋ) > 0 in two cases: when x is smooth but not a pregeodesic
and when x is a piecewise pregeodesic (see case 2 and last part of the proof of
[72, Proposition 10.46]). Our aim is to lift this variation (up to a subtle choice θ
of the parameter) to a variation of γ in the spacetime. Specifically, the variation
ηθ = γw(θ) for θ ∈ (−ε0 , ε0 ) will be written as

                             γw(θ) (s) = (ζw(θ) (s), xw(θ) (s))                       (62)
84                    E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


and ζw(θ) is defined on [a, b] as
                             (       Rs
                               ζ(a) + a F (ẋw(θ) )dτ           if θ ∈ [−ε0 , 0],
                 ζw(θ) (s) =         Rs                                                   (63)
                               ζ(a) + a Fl (ẋw(θ) )dτ          if θ ∈ [0, ε0 ],
for all s ∈ [a, b]. Notice that both expressions agree for θ = 0, and the longitudinal
curves at constant θ are lightlike.
                                                                         ∂
   The reparametrization w(θ) will be crucial because otherwise ∂w         ζw (s0 )|w=0
might make no sense. Indeed, choose any s0 ∈ (a, b) and, for small w ≥ 0, put:
                                    Z w
                                                   dw̄
                            θ(w) =      q
                                     0    h̃(ẋw̄ (s0 ), ẋw̄ (s0 ))
whenever w ∈ (0, ε), which is well-defined and it can be extended continuously at
w = 0 since h̃(ẋw (s0 ), ẋw (s0 )) > 0, for w > 0, and
                   ∂
                      h̃(ẋw (s0 ), ẋw (s0 ))|w=0 = 2h̃(ξ 0 (s0 ), ẋ(s0 )) > 0.
                  ∂w
In fact, the latter implies
                                                               √
                               q
                                   h̃(ẋw (s0 ), ẋw (s0 )) ≥ c w,
for some constant c > 0 and 0 < w ≤ ε, and consequently,
                     Z w                                 Z w
                                     dw̄                     dw̄ 2√
              θ(w) =      q                            ≤     √ =    w.
                       0                                  0 c w̄ c
                            h̃(ẋw̄ (s0 ), ẋw̄ (s0 ))
                                      0
                      qw(θ), θ ∈ [0, ε ), be the inverse function of θ(w), w ∈ [0, ε).
So, put θ(0) = 0 and let
Observe that ẇ(θ) = h̃(ẋw(θ) (s0 ), ẋw(θ) (s0 )), for θ > 0, and limθ→0+ ẇ(θ) = 0.
Thus, w can be C 1 -extended evenly, that is, we write w(−θ) = w(θ), on (−ε0 , ε0 ).
   Once defined this (non-injective) function w(θ), our aim is to check the appro-
priate smoothness of the variation as well as to compute its variational vector field.
As a previous technical computation, let us check that the function
                                                        v
                                                        u
                                     ẇ(θ)              u h̃(ẋw(θ) (s0 ), ẋw(θ) (s0 ))
      0
 (0, ε ] × [a, b] 3 (θ, s) 7→ q                       =t                                 , (64)
                               h̃(ẋ  (s), ẋ  (s))         h̃(ẋw(θ) (s), ẋw(θ) (s))
                                      w(θ)       w(θ)

is bounded so that Lebesgue’s theorem of dominated convergence can be used in
the integrals below. Indeed, taking into account that, by assumption, h̃(ẋ, ξ 0 ) > 0
on [a, b], consider the smooth function
                            s
                              h̃(ẋ(s0 ), ξ 0 (s0 ))
                    u(s) :=                          (> 0), ∀s ∈ [a, b].
                                h̃(ẋ(s), ξ 0 (s))
Now, applying L’Hopital’s rule for fixed s ∈ [a, b] in the radicand of (64):
                                         v
                                         u h̃ ẋw(θ) (s0 ), D̃ẋw |w=w(θ) (s0 ) ẇ(θ)
                                         u                                     
                ẇ(θ)                                         dw
  lim q                           = lim+ t                                            = u(s)
                                             h̃ ẋw(θ) (s), D̃dw
                                                               ẋw
                                                                              
 θ→0+                                                              |w=w(θ) (s) ẇ(θ)
        h̃(ẋw(θ) (s), ẋw(θ) (s)) θ→0
                                                                                      (65)
and, up to consider a smaller ε0 , the boundedness of (64) follows easily. Indeed,
observe that the assumption h̃(ẋ, ξ 0 )|J > 0 implies that the function (θ, s) ∈ [0, ε0 )×
                              WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                                   85

                                            
       h̃ ẋ(s0 ), Ddw
                     ẋw
                         |w=w(θ) (s0 )
J 7→                                        is bounded on [0, ε00 ]×J, for 0 < ε00 small enough. Thus,
        h̃ ẋ(s), Ddw
                    ẋw
                        |w=w(θ) (s)
by Cauchy’s mean value theorem we also have that the function (θ, s) ∈ [0, ε00 ]×J 7→
       ẇ(θ)
√                 is bounded.
  h̃(ẋw(θ) (s),ẋw(θ) (s))
   Consider now ηθ = γw(θ) with θ ∈ (−ε0 , ε0 ) as defined in (62), (63), with F, Fl as
in (61), recalling that Λ(x(s)) 6= 0, for all s ∈ [a, b]. Then,

                  ζw(θ) (s) − ζw(0) (s)
           lim
         θ→0+               θ
                           Z s
                                ∂
                  = lim+           Fl (ẋw )        ẇ(θ)dτ
                    θ→0     a  ∂w            w=w(θ)

                                                               h̃( D̃ẋw , ẋw )
                                 Z s
                                             ∂ ω(ẋw )                                                     
                  = lim+                                     + q dw                                            ẇ(θ)dτ
                      θ→0          a        ∂w Λ(xw ) w=w(θ)
                                                                  h̃(ẋw , ẋw )
                                                                                                  w=w(θ)
                      Z s
                  =            h̃(ξ 0 , ẋ) udτ
                          a

where limθ→0 ẇ(θ) = 0 and (65) are used in the last equality. Analogously,

                 ζw(θ) (s) − ζw(0) (s)
         lim
        θ→0−               θ
                          Z s
                               ∂
                 = lim            F (ẋw )        ẇ(θ)dτ
                   θ→0− a ∂w               w=w(θ)
                            Z s
                                 ∂
                 = − lim+            F (ẋw )        ẇ(θ)dτ
                     θ→0      a ∂w            w=w(θ)

                                                                h̃( D̃ẋw , ẋw )
                                   Z s
                                              ∂ ω(ẋw )                                                    
                 = − lim                                      − q dw                                            ẇ(θ)dτ
                       θ→0+            a     ∂w Λ(xw ) w=w(θ)
                                                                   h̃(ẋw , ẋw )
                                                                                                  w=w(θ)
                     Z s
                 =            h̃(ξ 0 , ẋ) udτ.
                      a

That is, it follows:
                                                     Z s
                          dζw(θ)
                                   (s) =                    h̃(ξ 0 , ẋ) udτ                 ∀s ∈ [a, b]
                            dθ θ=0                      a

                     dxw(θ)
Moreover, as           dθ(s) = ẇ(0)ξ(s) = 0, we conclude that the variational vector
                                  θ=0
                          dζw(θ)       
field defining ηθ is Z =    dθ      , 0 . Notice also that the corresponding variation
                                                  θ=0
γw(θ) (recall (62)) has continuous second order mixed derivatives on (−ε, ε) × [a, b].
Thus, it is an admissible variation but
                                   Z b                          q                            Z bq
       dtγ(b) (Z(b)) = r                   h̃(ξ 0 , ẋ) udτ =       h̃(ξ 0 (s0 ), ẋ(s0 ))          h̃(ξ 0 , ẋ)dτ > 0,
                                       a                                                      a

in contradiction with (60).
86                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   Therefore, at the interval J where x is (−h̃)-lightlike, x|J cannot be neither
a smooth curve that is not a −h̃-lightlike pregeodesic nor a broken lightlike pre-
geodesic of −h̃, i.e., x|J has to be a lightlike pregeodesic of h̃ and this concludes
Case (c).
   (2) Recall that, from Corollary 5.6, if γ is a future-pointing lightlike geodesic
with Cγ 6= 0, then x is a pregeodesic of (M, F ) or (M, Fl ) according to Cγ < 0
or Cγ > 0. Now, any variation γw = (ζw , xw ) of γ, must satisfy g(∂t , γ̇w ) < 0,
in the first case, and g(∂t , γ̇w ) > 0, in the second one, on all the interval [a, b]
and for w small enough. Hence, xw defines an F -admissible       variation of x. As
ζw (s) = t0 + `F (xw )|[a,s] (resp. ζw (s) = t0 + `Fl (xw )|[a,s] ) we get that γ is a
critical point of T (recall Lemma 2.52). Finally, the case when Cγ = 0 follows from
Corollary 5.6-(iii).                                                                
Remark 7.9. (1) Comparing Theorems 7.4 and 7.8, one realizes that the more
restrictive ambient of the latter makes possible both, an accurate description of
the critical points and also to remove the condition of non-orthogonality at the
endpoint in Theorem 7.4. Nevertheless, a condition of non-triviality x0 6= x1 was
assumed in Theorem 7.8. The role of this condition is apparent because if x0 ∈ lx1
and this line is lightlike, then the case (b) in the proof of Theorem 7.8 shows that
even if this curve is a geodesic it will not be a critical point. If lx1 is a lightlike
curve then last-point non-orthogonality should be assumed as in Theorem 7.4 and
if it is not lightlike then the hypothesis can be removed.
    (2) Observe that the variation obtained in Case (c) of the above proof is not
necessarily C 2 . Indeed, if one tries to compute the second partial derivative with
respect to θ, some denominators tending to 0 appear. In any case, it is an admissible
variation (according to Definition 7.1) because the second order mixed derivatives
exist and are continuous.
    Moreover, even though we have used just the first derivative of w(θ), one can
check that w is C 2 . As a matter of fact, denoting by D̃dw       ẋw
                                                                      (s) the covariant derivative
along the curve w 7→ xw (s) associated with the Levi-Civita connection of h̃ on Ml ,
we have for the chosen s0 ∈ (a, b) and each θ > 0:
               h̃ ẋw(θ) (s0 ), D̃dw
                                   ẋw
                                                    
                                       |w=w(θ) (s0 )                        D̃ ẋw
                                                                                             
     ẅ(θ) = q                                     ẇ(θ) = h̃ ẋw(θ) (s0 ), dw |w=w(θ) (s0 ) .
                     h̃ ẋw(θ) (s0 ), ẋw(θ) (s0 )
As the limit at θ = 0 of the right-hand side is well-defined, L’Hopital’s rule ensures
that w(θ) is a C 2 function on all (−ε0 , ε0 ) (recall that w(−θ) = w(θ) and then
ẅ(−θ) = ẅ(θ)).
   Since the lightlike geodesics in (R × M, g), that connect a point x0 with a line
lx1 when at least one of the two points x0 , x1 belongs to the region of mild wind,
are those projecting on pregeodesics of F (recall Corollary 5.6), from Theorem 7.8
we immediately get:
Corollary 7.10. Let x0 , x1 ∈ M be such that at least one of the two points belongs
to the mild wind region. Then the critical points of the arrival time functional on
N(t0 ,x0 ),lx1 are all and only the future-pointing lightlike curves connecting (t0 , x0 )
to lx1 , whose projections on M are pregeodesics of (M, F ) and, vice versa, all the
pregeodesics of (M, F ) connecting x0 to x1 , when lifted to (R × M, g) as lightlike
curves starting at (t0 , x0 ), are critical points of T on N(t0 ,x0 ),lx1 .
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                             87


   As in Corollary 7.5, we can obtain a result for timelike geodesics by considering
the extended spacetime (R × M × Ru , g̃). Notice that (27) is enough to ensure that
(R × M × Ru , g̃) is also an SSTK splitting and the canonical projection t : R ×
M × Ru → R is a temporal function. The Fermat structure Σ1 on M × Ru carries
two pseudo-Finsler metrics F1 and (F1 )l given by (30) and (32) with g0 replaced
                                                    ∗
by the Riemannian metric on M × Ru , g1 := πM,u        g0 + du2 , where πM,u is the
canonical projection of M ×Ru on M . Clearly also the domains A1 and (A1 )E follow
trivial modifications according to Proposition 3.12. Then, Theorem 7.8 applied to
(R × M × Ru , g̃) with its Fermat structure Σ1 and the arrival time functional T ,
from a point (p0 , 0) ∈ R × M × Ru to a line l(x1 ,η) = R × {(x1 , η)} provides:
Corollary 7.11. If the curve γ1 is a critical point of the arrival time functional T
on N(p0 ,0),l(x1 ,η) , then, its projection πR×M ◦γ1 is a timelike pregeodesic of (R×M, g)
with length η. Conversely,       p if γ = (ζ, x) : [0, 1] → R × M is a timelike geodesic of
(R×M, g) (of length η = −g(γ̇, γ̇)) then, the lightlike geodesic of (R×M ×Ru , g̃),
γ1 (s) = (γ(s), ηs), satisfies C = g(∂t , γ̇) = g̃(∂t , γ̇1 ) and one of the following three
exclusive cases holds
     (i) C < 0, ẋ lies in A, (x(s), ηs) is a pregeodesic of F1 , γ1 is a critical point
         of T1 and                             Z s
                                                                  
                                ζ(s) = ζ(a) +       F1 (ẋ(s̄), η) ds̄.
                                               a
    (ii) C > 0, ẋ lies in Al (so that Λ < 0 on all x), (x(s), ηs) is a pregeodesic of
         (F1 )l , γ1 is a critical point of T1 and
                                           Z s
                                                                 
                           ζ(s) = ζ(a) +       (F1 )l (ẋ(s̄), η) ds̄.
                                           a

   (iii) C = 0, x remains in M̄l and, whenever Λ < 0 on x, necessarily (x(s), ηs)
         is a lightlike geodesic of the Lorentzian metric h1 /Λ on Ml × Ru , where
                 ∗
         h1 = πM,u   h + du2 −ω(ẋ) > 0 and ζ satisfies
                                     Z s                            
                                         g1 (ẋ(s̄), η), (ẋ(s̄), η)
                       ζ(s) = ζ(a) −                                  ds̄.
                                      a           ω(ẋ(s̄))

                              8. Further applications
   Next, we give some simple applications to spacetimes (which, eventually, could
be developed further in concrete cases of physical interest) in Subsections 8.1 and
8.3. An application to the differentiability of the Randers-Kropina separation in
Subsection 8.2 is also provided.

8.1. Cauchy developments. The description of the causal properties of an SSTK
splitting in terms of its Fermat structure allows us to obtain also information about
Cauchy developments (see [72, Ch. 14] for background and conventions used here).
The notion of Cauchy development makes sense for any subset A of a spacetime L
that is achronal i.e. no x, y ∈ A are chronologically related (we will only consider
subsets included in a slice of an SSTK splitting that are always acausal too, see
footnote 10). For such an A, the future (resp. past) Cauchy development of A,
denoted by D+ (A) (resp. D− (A)) is defined as the subset of the points y such that
every past-inextendible (resp. future-inextendible) causal curve through y meets
A. The union of both D+ (A) ∪ D− (A) is simply called the Cauchy development of
88                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


A and it will be denoted by D(A). The future (resp. past) Cauchy horizon H + (A)
(resp. H − (A)) is defined as
                                          ±
                     H ± (A) = {q ∈ D (A) : I ± (q) ∩ D± (A) = ∅}.
It is helpful to think that D(A) is the region of the spacetime predictable from data
in A (in fact, the interior of D(A) is globally hyperbolic when non-empty) and the
horizon H(A) = H + (A) ∪ H − (A) can be thought as the boundary of this region.
                                                              +
As an immediate consequence of the definition, H + (A) = D (A) \ I − (D+ (A)) and
analogously for H − (A).
Proposition 8.1. Let (R × M, g) be an SSTK splitting as in (26), A ⊂ M and
At0 = {t0 } × A the (necessarily achronal) subset of St0 . Then
                                                       −
           D+ (At0 ) ⊂ (t, y) ∈ R × M : t ≥ t0 and B̂Σ
                       
                                                         (y, t − t0 ) ⊂ A ,
            D− (At0 ) ⊂ {(t, y) ∈ R × M : t ≤ t0 and B̂Σ
                                                       +
                                                         (y, t0 − t) ⊂ A}.
Moreover, if the spacetime is globally hyperbolic with S0 a Cauchy hypersurface,
then the reverse inclusions hold and:
                                            [                     [
                                                 +                   +
 H + (At0 ) = (t, y) ∈ R × M : t ≥ t0 , y ∈
             
                                               B̂Σ (x, t − t0 ) \   BΣ (x, t − t0 ) ,
                                                 x∈∂A                     ∈A
                                                                         x/
                                          [                   [
     −                                        −                  −
           
 H (At0 ) = (t, y) ∈ R × M : t ≤ t0 , y ∈   B̂Σ (x, t0 − t) \   BΣ (x, t0 − t) .
                                                 x∈∂A                     ∈A
                                                                         x/

Proof. Reasoning always for the + case, let (t, y) ∈ D+ (At0 ). As the time function
of the SSTK splitting is decreasing on past-pointing causal curves, t ≥ t0 . If
       −
x ∈ B̂Σ  (y, t − t0 ), from Proposition 5.1, (t0 , x) ∈ J − (t, y) and there exists a past-
pointing causal curve from (t, y) to (t0 , x). Again by monotonicity of the time
function, (t0 , x) is its unique point of intersection with At0 , so that x ∈ A.
    Now let us assume that St0 is a Cauchy hypersurface.
                                        −
    Let (t, y) ∈ R × M such that B̂Σ      (y, t − t0 ) ⊂ A. From Proposition 5.1, any
past-inextendible causal curve through (t, y) intersects St0 in a point (t0 , x) with
       −
x ∈ B̂Σ  (y, t − t0 ), so that, x ∈ A and consequently (t, y) ∈ D+ (At0 ).
    For the Cauchy horizons, consider the case t > t0 and let us show the inclusion ⊂.
                                                                                 +
Let (t, y) ∈ H + (At0 ). Assume that there exists x 6∈ A such that y ∈ BΣ          (x, t − t0 ).
                                                       +
From Proposition 5.1 (t0 , x)  (t, y); thus, I (t0 , x) is a neighborhood of (t, y)
                                                                                     +
which does not intersect D+ (At0 ), which is absurd. Therefore, y 6∈ ∪x6∈A BΣ           (x, t −
                      + +                           +
t0 ). Now, let {(tn , yn )} be a sequence in I (t, y) converging to (t, y) such that,
for each n ∈ N, there exists a future-pointing causal curve γn which does not cross
At0 . However, as St0 is Cauchy, γn will cross St0 at some (t0 , xn ) with xn 6∈ A. The
limit curve γ of the sequence {γn } passing through (t, y) will also cross St0 at some
point (t0 , x) and, by (i) in Lemma 5.7, x = limn xn . Therefore, x ∈ M \ A and
       +
y ∈ B̂Σ  (x, t − t0 ). Moreover, x cannot belong to the interior of M \ A. Otherwise, if
V is a neighborhood of x in M \ A, then, recalling that J − (t, y) = I¯− (t, y), I − (t, y)
                                                                    +
would intersect {t0 } × V and, reasoning as above, (t, y) 6∈ D (At0 ).
                                                          +
    For the inclusion ⊃, notice first that, if (t, y) 6∈ D (At0 ), then there exists (t0 , y 0 ),
                                 +
with t0 < t0 < t, such that D (At0 ) 63 (t0 , y 0 )  (t, y). Taking an inextendible past-
pointing causal curve starting at (t0 , y 0 ) which does not cross At0 (but which will
cross St0 necessarily), there exists x̄ ∈ M \A such that (t0 , x̄) ≤ (t0 , y 0 )  (t, y) and,
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                    89

              +                                                                            +
so, y ∈ BΣ      (x̄, t − t0 ). Thus, one has just to prove only for points (t, y) ∈ D (At0 )
                                                           +
that (t, y) belongs to H + (At0 ) whenever y ∈ B̂Σ           (x̃, t − t0 ), for some x̃ ∈ ∂A.
This hypothesis implies that (t, y) ∈ J + (t0 , x̃) and, so, any (t0 , x0 )  (t, y) also
satisfies (t0 , x0 )  (t0 , x̃). As x̃ lies in ∂A, necessarily (t0 , x0 ) ∈ I + (St0 \ At0 ), i.e.,
(t0 , x0 ) 6∈ D+ (At0 ), as required.
                                                                                      +
     For the case t = t0 , the inclusion ⊂ is straightforward (the balls BΣ             (x, 0) are
empty and a simple local comparison with Lorentz Minkowski shows that (a) if x
belongs to the interior of A then I + (t0 , x) intersects D+ (At0 ) while (b) if x belongs
to the interior of M \ A then (t0 , x) does not belong to the closure of D+ (At0 )).
The converse inclusion follows because, clearly, (t0 , x) belongs to D̄+ (At0 ) if x ∈ ∂A
(as At0 ⊂ D̄+ (At0 )) and, if some (t, y) ∈ I + (t0 , x) ∩ D+ (At0 ) then a contradiction
follows as above.                                                                                

   The previous result extends [23, Prop. 4.7]. When global hyperbolicity is as-
sumed, one can use indistinctly closed or c-balls, even though some extensions in
the sense of [23, Remark 4.8] could be explored. The following example stresses the
role of the Cauchy hypersurface.
Example 8.2. R × (0, +∞) ⊂ L2 as SSTK spacetime shows that if St is not
Cauchy, then none on the conclusions for H ± (At ) holds if one chooses A = (0, 2)
(see Fig. 12). Notice that this example is even causally simple.




         Figure 12. The points of the dashed line belong to ∪t>0 {t} ×
           +           +
         B̂Σ (2, t) \ BΣ (2, t) but not to H + (A); the ones of the segment 0P ,
                                                                +
         0 excluded, are in H + (A) but not in ∪t>0 {t} × B̂Σ     (2, t).


8.2. Differentiability of the Randers-Kropina separation. For an SSTK with
a causal Killing vector field, we can use the Finslerian separation dF of the asso-
ciated Randers-Kropina metric to describe the future or the past Cauchy horizon
of At0 = {t0 } × A, at least when S0 is Cauchy. Indeed, in this case, from Proposi-
tion 8.1, the set:

  {(t, y) ∈ R × M :6 ∃x0 ∈ M \ A : dF (x0 , y) < t − t0 and
       either y ∈ ∂A, t ≥ t0 and Λ(y) = 0 or ∃x ∈ ∂A s. t. dF (x, y) = t − t0 }
                       = {(t, y) ∈ R × Ā : infx6∈A dF (x, y) = t − t0 }
        ∪ {(t, x) : x ∈ ∂A, Λ(x) = 0, t ≥ t0 and 6 ∃x0 ∈ M \ A : dF (x0 , x) < t − t0 }
90                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


is equal to the horizon H + (At0 ). Notice that, differently from the stationary case,
H + (At0 ) might also contain achronal arcs, included in integral curves of ∂t , such
that x ∈ ∂A, Λ(x) = 0 and dΛ(Ker ωx ) = 0.
Example 8.3. Consider R2 endowed with the flat metric g = dx2 −(dxdt+dtdx)/2
and A = (0, 1) ⊂ R, so that S0 = {0} × R is spacelike and the segment connecting
the points having coordinates (0, 1) and (1, 1) (the first coordinate is t) is contained
in H + (A0 ). Clearly, this arc cannot be described as made of points belonging to
the graph (in R × M ) of the function
                             ϕ := x ∈ Ā 7→ dF (M \ A, x),
where dF (M \ A, x) := inf y∈M \A dF (y, x). Modifying this example one can also
easily check that, differently from the Riemannian or the Finslerian case, ϕ is not
continuous on ∂A, in general.
    Following [31], we introduce the notion of future horizon which encompasses
some of the essential properties possessed by a Cauchy horizon. A future horizon
is a topological, closed, achronal hypersurface ruled by future inextendible lightlike
geodesics. This notion allows us to remove the assumption that S0 must be a
Cauchy hypersurface and, then, to extend to the Randers-Kropina separation dF
a result about differentiability of the distance function from a closed subset valid
for a Riemannian distance [31, Proposition 11] and for a distance associated with
a Randers metric [23, Theorem 5.12].
    Let (M, F ) be a Randers-Kropina space and C ⊂ M a closed subset. Let (R ×
M, g) be the SSTK splitting associated with (M, F ) and ((−∞, 0) × (M \ C), g) the
spacetime obtained by considering the open subset (−∞, 0) × (M \ C) ⊂ R × M .
Let us define ρ : M \ C → [−∞, 0), ρ(x) := −dF (x, C), where, now, dF (x, C) :=
inf y∈C dF (x, y). Notice that, similarly to Proposition 4.3, ρ is equal to the function
                τ (x) := sup{t ∈ R : ∃y ∈ C such that (t, x)  (0, y)}
                     = sup{t ∈ R : ({0} × C) ∩ I + (t, x) 6= ∅}
                     = sup{t ∈ R : (t, x) ∈ I − ({0} × C)}.
Let us prove that ρ is a continuous function ([−∞, 0) is endowed with its natu-
ral order topology). Indeed, being ρ defined as minus the infimum of continuous
functions, it is lower semi-continuous. Moreover, the following holds too:
Proposition 8.4. The function ρ : M \ C → [−∞, 0) is upper semi-continuous.
Proof. Assume by contradiction that there exist x ∈ M \ C and two sequences
{yn } ⊂ C and {xn } ⊂ M \ C such that xn → x and tn := −dF (xn , yn ) satisfy
                                 T0 := lim tn > ρ(x).
                                         n

Then, take future-pointing timelike curves γn from (tn − 1/n, xn ) to (0, yn ) and the
limit curve γ of the sequence starting at (T0 , x). As γ is inextendible and x ∈ M \C,
by a reasoning analogous to that in the proof of Theorem 4.5, we deduce that its
support cannot be included in the line lx = R × {x}. So, take a point Q of γ away
from lx and T1 ∈ (ρ(x), T0 ). As the line lx is causal, the segment with endpoints
(T1 , x) and (T0 , x) glued with the arc of γ between (T0 , x) and Q gives a causal
curve which cannot be a lightlike pregeodesic (otherwise the line lx would be also a
lightlike pregeodesic and, at the first point where γ leaves lx , uniqueness of geodesics
                   WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                              91


would be violated). Hence, from Remark 3.1, (T1 , x)  Q. Being γ a limit curve
and the relation  open, there exists Qn̄ , n̄ ∈ N, belonging to the support of γn̄
such that (T1 , x)  Qn̄ . Therefore, (T1 , x)  (0, yn̄ ) too, and then T1 ≤ ρ(x), a
contradiction.                                                                     
   For each closed set C ⊂ M we can construct a future horizon by using the
function ρ associated with C as follows.
Proposition 8.5. Let C ⊂ M be a closed set. Then the hypersurface H =
{(ρ(x), x) : x ∈ M \ C, ρ(x) 6= −∞} is a future horizon in the spacetime ((−∞, 0) ×
(M \ C), g).
Proof. Since ρ : M \ C → [−∞, 0) is continuous we get that H is a topological
closed hypersurface in ((−∞, 0) × M \ C, g). Moreover, it is achronal, otherwise
a timelike future-pointing curve would connect (ρ(x1 ), x1 ) to (ρ(x2 ), x2 ) and, by
taking a sequence of points {yn } ⊂ C such that (ρ(x2 ) − 1/n, x2 )  (0, yn ) we
would get (ρ(x1 ), x1 )  (0, yn ), for n big enough. Then, for ε > 0 small enough,
(ρ(x1 ) + ε, x1 )  (0, yn̄ ), for some n̄ ∈ N, which, recalling that ρ(x1 ) = τ (x1 ), gives
a contradiction.
    Let us now prove the existence of a future-pointing, future-inextendible, geodesic
γ : [0, a) → (−∞, 0) × M through any point of H and contained in H. Consider a
sequence {γn } of timelike future-pointing curves connecting (ρ(x) − n1 , x) to (0, yn ),
with yn ∈ C, which we can assume parametrized by the time function t. Such
a sequence admits a future-pointing limit curve γ : [0, a) → R × M , such that
γ(0) = (ρ(x), x), and we can assume, by taking a smaller a if necessary, that the
image of γ is contained in R × (M \ C). Reasoning as in the proof of Theorem 4.5
and Proposition 8.4, γ cannot be contained in the line lx (as x ∈ M \ C) and all
the points in γ are horismotically related (otherwise, a point Q on γ would lie in
the chronological future of (ρ(x), x) and, being γ a limit curve, this also would
imply that (ρ(x), x) is in the chronological past of C). From Corollary 5.3, γ is a
(future inextendible) lightlike pregeodesic which can be parametrized with t, i.e.,
γ(t) = (t, σ(t)), t ∈ [ρ(x), t1 ) for some t1 > 0 and some unit minimizing F -geodesic
σ. To check that γ is included in H, parametrize also the converging curves as
γn (t) = (t, xn (t)). Then, for each t ∈ [ρ(x), t1 ), t ≤ τ (xn (t)) = ρ(xn (t)) and by
the continuity of ρ and Lemma 5.7, ρ(xn (t)) → ρ(σ(t)), hence t ≤ ρ(σ(t)). If
t < ρ(σ(t)), there    would exist a timelike future-pointing curve connecting t +
ρ(σ(t))/2, σ(t) to C and then, being the line lσ(t) causal, (ρ(x), x) would be in
the chronological past of C, which is impossible.             Thus, ρ(σ(t)) = t so that
(t, σ(t)) ∈ H.                                                                             
  Actually the proof of Proposition 8.5 shows also that the following extension to
Randers-Kropina metrics of [31, Proposition 9] and [23, Proposition 5.11] holds.
Corollary 8.6. Let (M, F ) be a Randers-Kropina space and C ⊂ M a closed
subset. Then every point x ∈ M \ C, such that dF (x, C) < +∞, belongs to at least
one geodesic segment σ which is minimizing, i.e. dF (σ(t), C) = t, for all t in a
certain interval (t0 , t1 ] with σ(t1 ) = x.
   The correspondence between lightlike geodesics ruling H and dF (·, C) - minimiz-
ing geodesics allows us to use [9, Theorem 3.5], which states that the differentiable
points of a horizon are the points which are crossed by one and only one lightlike
geodesic ruling the horizon, so that we immediately obtain the following.
92                    E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


Proposition 8.7. Let (M, F ) be a Randers-Kropina space and C a closed subset
of M . A point x ∈ M \ C, such that dF (x, C) < +∞, is a differentiable point of the
function dF (·, C) if and only if there exists a unique minimizing geodesic segment
of (M, F ) through x.
Remark 8.8. Another consequence of the results in [9] is that the set of the points
in M \ C where dF (x, C) fails to be differentiable is included in the set of the F -cut
points of C, i.e. the points x ∈ M \ C such that a minimizing geodesic through
x cannot be extended beyond its beginning at x as a minimizing geodesic. The
F -cut points of C correspond to the endpoints of H i.e. the points in H where the
lightlike geodesics ruling H cease to belong to H. Moreover, the set of the points
where dF (·, C) is not differentiable corresponds with the crease set of H i.e. the
subset of the endpoints of H belonging to two or more ruling lightlike geodesics.
8.3. K-horizons. When the Killing vector field K of an SSTK spacetime is time-
like (i.e., in the stationary case), there are no restriction for the admissible curves
on the associated Finsler structure; so, each point p ∈ R × M and each integral
curve of K can be joined by means of a timelike curve γ. Physically, this prevents
the existence of horizons. In fact, if the spacetime admits a sensible notion of fu-
ture infinity J + (namely, by means of a conformal embedding [87] or by using the
causal boundary [35]), the existence of the connecting curves γ, the invariance of
the metric with the flow of K, and the fact that this flow is composed by timelike
curves, would imply I − (J + ) = R × M . Nevertheless, the situation is different
when K changes from timelike to spacelike. This situation is natural in Mathe-
matical Relativity; recall that this happens, for example, in the extension of the
Schwarzschild spacetime through its event horizon (the hypersurface r = 2m, which
coincides with the vanishing of g(K, K) for its natural Killing K = ∂t )15 as well
as in Kerr spacetime, through the stationary limit hypersurface H that serves as a
boundary for the ergosphere (the spacetime event horizon appears beyond H)16.
    In general, an embedded hypersurface H invariant by the flow of a Killing vector
field K which is tangent and lightlike on H is called a Killing horizon. The regularity
of H depends on the context, typically, 0 would be a regular value of g(K, K), and H
would be a connected component of the preimage, but one may admit non-smooth
H (see [30, §2.5], [28] and references therein). In the simple case that H is the
preimage of a regular value, a naive justification of the name horizon goes as follows.
As all the future causal cones must lie on one side of H, given (t0 , x0 ) ∈ H (regarded
as H = R × NH )(⊂ R × M ) for some submanifold NH ) there is a neighborhood
U of x0 such that no points p, q ∈ R × U with g(Kp , Kp ) > 0, g(Kq , Kq ) < 0, can
be joined by means of a future-pointing (or past-pointing, depending on the time-
orientations) timelike curve γ from p to q entirely contained in R × U , see Fig. 13
(γ could not cross H maintaining its timelike character).
    15Notice that the usual description of Schwarzschild spacetime in coordinates (t, r, θ, φ) fails
in the hypersurface r = 2m because the slices t =constant are forced to be orthogonal to K = ∂t
(i.e., the spacetime is being described as static); however, such a description can be extended
beyond that hypersurface by regarding the spacetime as stationary.
    16It is well-known that the usual Boyer-Lindquist coordinates for Kerr spacetime fail for some
values r− ≤ r+ of the radial coordinate r (specifically, two distinct values in the case of slow Kerr.
i.e., a2 < m2 , a single value for extreme Kerr, a2 = m2 , and none for fast Kerr a2 > m2 ). Our
approach is directly applicable in the region r+ < r, which contains the ergosphere of slow Kerr,
as t is a temporal function therein (see [73, Prop. 2.4.6]). Notice also that the reference [54],
summarized in §9.2, also includes additional simple examples.
                 WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                         93




        Figure 13. A Killing horizon H = R × NH with the lightlike
        cones at (t0 , x0 ) ∈ H, p and q

  However, even in this case, one can wonder if p and q could be joined by future-
pointing causal curves which leave R × U .
  By using the associated Fermat structure Σ, these considerations can be for-
mulated from a global viewpoint, with independence of the existence of Killing
horizons, by means of the following notion.
Definition 8.9. Let M be a manifold endowed with a wind Finslerian structure
Σ, and let A ⊂ M . The K-horizon for A is the boundary HΣ (A) of the set
                       A
{y ∈ M : ∃x ∈ A s. t. Cy,x 6= ∅}.
Remark 8.10. When the wind Finslerian structure is a Randers-Kropina metric
F with associated separation dF , the K-horizon for A can be written as
                     HF (A) = ∂({y ∈ M : dF (y, A) < +∞}).
  When applied to SSTK spacetimes, this yields a natural concept:
Definition 8.11. Let (R×M, g) be an SSTK splitting and A ⊂ M . The K-horizon
for R × A, is the boundary H(A) of the set of the points (t, y) ∈ R × M such that
there exists a future-pointing timelike curve from (t, y) to R × A.
   Notice that the K-horizons for A (for both Σ and the SSTK splitting) are con-
trolled by the admissible curves and, these, by the open domain A for Σ. The
following results ensure the consistency of the previous two definitions.
Lemma 8.12. Let L be an SSTK spacetime that splits in two different ways (R ×
M, g), (R × M f , g f ) as in Lemma 6.7 and formula (45) for the same Killing vector
field K, and let Σ, Σf be the corresponding wind Finslerian structures (according
to Convention 6.9 and Proposition 6.10). Consider a subset AL ⊂ L invariant by
the flow of K, and let A be its projection on M (by using either of the previous two
splittings). Then, HΣ (A) = HΣf (A).
Proof. Notice that the K-horizons for Σ and Σf depends exclusively on the set A
of F -admissible directions, and these directions are equal for Σ and Σf , since they
are the projections of causal vectors to M and M f (recall that M f ≡ S f can be
seen as a hypersurface in R × M obtained as a graph, see (45)).                    
Proposition 8.13. Let (R × M, g) be an SSTK splitting and A ⊂ M . Then:
 (i) H(A) = R × HΣ (A).
94                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


 (ii) The K-horizon H(A) is included in the region g(K, K) ≥ 0.
Proof. The part (i) is a straightforward consequence of the definitions (recall Propo-
sition 5.1). For (ii), if p ∈ H(A), g(Kp , Kp ) cannot be negative as, otherwise, one
would have a stationary region R × U around p (U 3 p open and connected) and all
pairs of integral curves of K in this region can be connected by both, future-pointing
and past-pointing timelike curves.                                                  
Example 8.14. (Asymptotic flatness). A natural choice of a subset A for an SSTK
splitting is the region Λ > 0, so that H(A) can be understood as the limit of the
region from which one can access to the stationary part R×A. In fact, the standard
situation of horizons (including Kerr or Schwarzschild spacetimes) is the following:
one considers an SSTK splitting which is asymptotically flat, in the sense that,
away from a compact subset, M has one or more ends, each one diffeomorphic to
Rm with a ball removed, and the associated wind Finslerian structure becomes a
Randers metric F approaching asymptotically to the natural Euclidean metric (see
[18, Sect. 2.4]). In this case, it is natural to take A as the exterior of a large ball
in one of the ends. Notice that Definition 8.11 gives a natural notion of horizon
for that end (in the presence of a Killing field), extendible even when the standard
notions of asymptotic flatness cannot be applied.17
Remark 8.15. (K horizons vs. Killing horizons). Notice that the strict inequality
may hold in the case (ii) of the previous proposition. In fact, this happens in Kerr
spacetime for the K-horizon H(A) of the asymptotic region with Λ > 0 (recall that
K is spacelike in Kerr’s ergosphere up to the poles). Remarkably, Kerr’s horizon
is a K-horizon but not a Killing horizon (the stationary limit surface is neither a
K-horizon nor a Killing horizon).
   But even when the equality to 0 holds in (ii), H(A) can be strictly included in
the region g(K, K) = 0 because of several reasons. First, this region may be not a
hypersurface and, for example, it may contain an open subset; this happens in the
case of pp-waves, recall Example 4.11. Moreover, when the zero level of g(K, K) is a
Killing horizon, the global behavior of the metric may prevent even the existence of
a K-horizon, see Fig. 14. Summing up, the physical interpretation of the K-horizon
for A becomes apparent: H(A) is the limit of the region R so that R × A is not
accessible for particles starting beyond R. So, K-horizons are always associated
with some concrete A, and are clearly distinct to Killing horizons. Nevertheless,
results on spacetimes and Killing horizons may be applicable to K-horizons (for
example, to ensure that the Kropina part of a wind Finslerian structure appears on
a smooth surface and, eventually, may be a K-horizon, see Lemma 7 or Proposition
3 in [28]).

                   9. Conclusions and further developments
To conclude, first we spotlight the distinguishing features of our approach.
   When strong wind is considered, there is an obvious failure of the description of
Zermelo problem by means of a Finslerian metric of Randers type. The notion of
wind-Riemannian structure or, with more generality, wind Finslerian one Σ, appears
then as a natural model even though, as far as we know, the only precedents of
   17Recall that the classical notion of asymptotic flatness relies on the existence of a Penrose
conformal embedding which makes possible to define the null infinity J + ; see [35, Sect. 3.4] for
extensions of this approach.
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                            95




        Figure 14. An SSTK cylinder R × S 1 with a Killing vector field
        which is timelike everywhere except at the points of the line passing
        through (0, x) where it is lightlike; the K-horizon H({x}) is empty




such geometric structures are the Kropina-metrics, a particular type of singular
Finslerian metrics which would correspond to Zermelo problem with critical wind.
   In order to develop the properties of Σ, a number of new concepts are defined
(wind curve, c-ball, w-convexity, etc.), and more standard elements appear: a conic
Finsler metric F and a Lorentz-Finsler metric Fl on a cone domain. Notably,
geodesics in Σ split in three types of geodesics: locally minimizing F -geodesics,
locally maximizing Fl -geodesics and abnormal geodesics.
   For the case of a wind Riemannian structure of dimension m, a correspondence
with the conformal structure for an SSTK spacetime (a general class of Lorentzian
manifolds) of dimension m + 1 appears. In particular, the cone domain associated
with Σ can also be interpreted in terms of the (future) causal cone for a Lorentz
metric in the region of strong wind (obtained from a sort of projection of the metric
in the SSTK splitting), and the abnormal geodesics for Σ become lightlike geodesics
for this Lorentz metric.
   The applications of the correspondence work in both directions. On the one
hand, known results in Lorentzian Geometry can be applied to SSTK spacetimes,
and they yield a full description of the geodesics of Σ. In particular, the properties of
Kropina and Randers-Kropina metrics can be widely developed. On the other hand,
the conformal geometry of an SSTK spacetime can be characterized by means of a
wind Riemannian structure in a very precise way. This includes the SSTK causal
ladder and the existence of horizons, as well as other properties of more purely
mathematical interest such as the existence of some closed geodesics.
96                 E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


   This correspondence allows us to obtain a fully satisfactory solution of Zermelo
navigation problem with arbitrary wind: roughly, any solution is a geodesic for Σ,
and solutions must exist under w-convexity.
   What is more, Zermelo navigation suggests our general version of Fermat’s prin-
ciple, with independent interest in General Relativity. This general version leads
to a unified global variational description of all the Σ-geodesics connecting two
prescribed points of an SSTK spacetime as the critical points of the time arrival
functional.
   Direct applications of our approach include the modelization of practical situa-
tions [63], examples of Analogue Gravity [5, §2] and links with fields where cone
structures become relevant, such as Finsler spacetimes [52] or Hamilton-Jacobi
equation [34]. What is more, further developments have been carried out by the
authors since the first version of the present article. Next, we will mention some
of them following four main references, hoping that this may serve as a motivation
and guide for readers interested in a variety of related topics.


9.1. Randers and wind Riemannian manifolds of constant flag curvature.
(Ref. [53].) The study of Randers manifolds of constant flag curvature (CFC) is
a substantial topic in Finslerian Geometry, which includes as a milestone the local
and global classification by Bao, Robles and Shen [4]. Essentially, they proved that,
for all such metrics, the local Zermelo data (gR , W ) on M consist of a Riemann-
ian metric gR of constant curvature and a homothetic vector field W . Globally,
however, a striking difference appears in comparison with the Riemannian case. In
the latter, the model spaces (Euclidean, spherical, hyperbolic) appear under the
natural assumptions of simple connectedness and completeness. However, in the
Randers case, the fact that the gR -norm of a homothetic W may be greater and
smaller than 1 in different regions of M leads naturally to incomplete examples.
    This is solved in [4] by considering inextensible CFC Randers spaces; however,
a solution can be given within our more general framework. Indeed, following [53],
all the incomplete Randers models can be extended as complete wind Riemannian
structures by taking into account our notions of geodesic and completeness devel-
oped in Sections 2 and 6.1. Moreover, the notion of CFC can be extended to wind
Riemannian structures, being these spaces naturally classifiable now.
    Going into detail, we say that a wind Riemannian structure (M, Σ) has CFC
if its associated conic metrics F and Fl have constant flag curvatures for all the
flagpoles in A and Al , respectively. As a first step, the techniques in [4] remain
applicable proving that (M, Σ) has constant flag curvature κ ∈ R if and only if its
Zermelo data (gR , W ) satisfy the following two conditions:
     • there exists µ ∈ R such that the wind W is µ-homothetic for gR (i.e.,
       LW gR = 2µgR , where L is the Lie derivative), and
     • the Riemannian metric gR has constant curvature κ + 41 µ2 ,
see [53, Theorem 3.8]. Using this local result, the following global classification of
CFC spaces can be proved, see [53, Theorem 3.12]:
        A complete simply connected wind Riemannian structure (M, Σ) of
        constant flag curvature with Zermelo data (gR , W ) satisfies either
           (i) (M, gR ) is a model space of constant curvature and W is any
        of its Killing vector fields, or
                  WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                            97


           (ii) (M, gR ) is isometric to Rn and W is a properly homothetic
        (i.e. non-Killing) vector field.
Along the proof, the following criterion on completeness for (M, Σ) is used: if gR
is complete and W is homothetic, then Σ is complete (moreover, if W is properly
homothetic, then gR is flat), see [53, Theorem 3.10-(ii)].

9.2. Sharp criteria on completeness and Cauchy hypersurfaces. (Ref. [54].)
From the viewpoint of classical Riemannian or Finslerian Geometries, it was not
surprising that completeness was essential for problems of classification; in particu-
lar, the criterion cited above goes in this standard direction. However, a major goal
in our approach has been to translate properties of the wind Riemannian structure
(M, Σ) into properties of causality of the associated SSTK spacetime as in Section 5,
which opened the possibility of a pletora of relativistic interpretations, including
those in Section 8. In this setting, it is especially relevant the equivalence (proven
in Theorem 5.9-(iv)) between the completeness of Σ and the fact that the slices of
its SSTK spacetime are Cauchy hypersurfaces. In [54], completeness is studied mo-
tivated by applications to these hypersurfaces. Indeed, a natural characterization
of completeness is proven first and, then, criteria to ensure the Cauchy character of
the slices are provided, as well as applications to explicit spacetimes. In a nutshell,
the idea is that, taking into account only the conic Finsler metric F including its
continuous extension to the closure of A in T M \0, Hopf-Rinow type properties will
characterize completeness.
   More precisely, one considers first an extension of the notion of Finslerian sep-
aration in Definition 4.1, obtained by considering the set of wind curves between
two given points CxΣ0 ,x1 and the lengths w.r.t. the extension F̄ of F (expressed
as in (25)) to A ∪ AE (recall Definition 2.11 and Remark 2.61). The notion of
geodesic can be quite naturally extended to the conic Finsler manifold (M, F̄ ) (see
[54, Definition 3.19]) and, then, also forward and backward completeness are nat-
urally defined for (M, F̄ ). Then, it is proved that (M, Σ) is geodesically complete
if and only if (M, F̄ ) is geodesically complete. Furthermore, forward (resp. back-
ward) Cauchy completeness of (M, dF̄ ) becomes equivalent to its forward (resp.
backward) geodesic completeness which is in turn equivalent to the fact that each
closed and forward (resp. backward) bounded subset of (M, dF̄ ) is compact (see
[54, Theorem 3.23]). Summing up, applying Theorem 5.9-(iv): the slices St in
the SSTK spacetime (R × M, g) are Cauchy hypersurfaces iff the associated conic
Finsler space (M, F̄ ) is geodesically complete.
   Starting at this characterization, it is easy to give sufficient conditions for the
completeness of (M, Σ) arising from the completeness of some Riemannian or Fins-
lerian metrics whose indicatrix at each p ∈ M encloses Σp , see [54, Props. 4.3 and
4.4, Example 4.6]. Some more refined applications, both relativistic and purely geo-
metric, are also provided. The former include examples of ergospheres and Killing
horizons which enhance our study in Section 8.3. Among the latter, it is worth
pointing out an example of a Randers manifold (M, R) satisfying the following
property: even though not all the closed symmetrized balls of (M, R) are compact,
its universal covering (M̃ , R̃) satisfies that all its closed symmetrized balls are com-
pact, see [54, Example 2.11]. We emphasize that, for reversible Finsler metrics, the
compactness of the closed symmetrized balls is equivalent to its completeness, as
a difference with the non-reversible case. Such an example becomes the Finslerian
98                    E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


translation of a notable static spacetime obtained by Harris [45]; the underlying
ideas in its interpretation come from Section 6.2.

9.3. From wind Finslerian to cones and Lorentz-Finsler metrics. (Ref.
[55].) Recall than a wind Finslerian structure Σ can always be interpreted using
the Zermelo problem, which is now anisotropic in a more general sense that the
wind Riemannian case. Indeed, at each point p ∈ M , the subset B̄p enclosed by
Σp = Σ ∩ Tp M determines the velocities that a certain moving object can attain
at p (see Remark 2.22). If we add a non-relativistic time t as a first coordinate the
(non-relativistic) spacetime R × M , the (boundary of the) velocities of the allowed
trajectories determine a cone structure C which at each point (t, p) is given by
                        Cp = {λ(1, v) ∈ R × Tp M : λ > 0, v ∈ Σp }.                           (66)
Observe that this cone can be described by the triple (dt, ∂t , Σ), being Σp defined
in ker(dt) ≡ Tp M , (see Fig. 5 for an enlightening picture).
   In the above setting, it is very natural to consider a time dependent Zermelo
problem, which leads to wind Finslerian structures of the triple (dt, ∂t , Σ) which
depend on the coordinate t. Even if we restrict to the wind Riemannian case, an
important difference with our approach in terms of SSTK spacetimes would appear,
namely, now one cannot expect that the conformal geometry of the spacetime is
codified in a single t-slice and, thus, a tidy result such as Theorem 5.9 cannot hold18.
However, the spacetime viewpoint introduced here will be very fruitful to handle
these t-dependent structures in a unified way. Indeed, to achieve a generalized
correspondence for wind Finslerian structures and also time-dependent, we will
consider strongly convex cone structures and Lorentz-Finsler metrics [55, Defs. 2.7,
3.5] as the natural generalization of SSTK spacetimes.
   As a first observation on cone structures C, they can always be obtained from a
class of (anisotropically conformal) Lorentz-Finsler metrics sharing the same pre-
geodesics, which turn out to be the intrinsic cone geodesics of C [55, Th. 1.1]. To
establish the searched generalization, start at a wind Finslerian structure (M, Σ)
and construct the cone structure C as in (66). Then C can also be regarded as the
cone structure of a Lorentz-Finsler metric L on R × M which admits K = ∂t as a
Killing vector field (see some details below). So, we arrive at the natural Finsler
generalization of SSTK spacetimes. Recall that the notion of a smooth standard
stationary Finsler spacetime has been developed in [55, Def. 4.6]. As in the rel-
ativistic case, these spacetimes are also endowed with a standard splitting such
that K = ∂t is timelike and Killing.19 Thus, Finslerian SSTK spacetimes arise just
dropping the timelike restriction. Summing up:
     (1) There is a natural Finslerian generalization of SSTK spacetimes, also en-
         dowed with a Killing K = ∂t .
     (2) The further generalization which also permits t-dependence is obtained by
         dropping the Killing character of ∂t .

   18Notice, for example, that hypotheses as those in [77, Section 3] (which involve the whole
cone structure) are the natural ones to ensure that the t-slices are Cauchy.
   19However, Finslerian stationary and static spacetimes present some subtleties in comparison
with the relativistic ones; these are related essentially to the possible lack of smoothness of the
Lorentz-Finsler metric along the timelike Killing field K, see [55, Sect. 4.2] and the study of
non-smooth stationary and static Finsler spacetimes in [26, 25].
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                                    99


    Using the generalization (1), the extension of our full approach is also straight-
forward. Indeed, by using the intrinsic causal properties of cone structures, the
whole setting of Sections 4 to 8 and most of their results are directly transferable.
In particular, when K is causal, a notion of Finsler-Kropina metric emerges as a
natural extension of Randers-Kropina ones and all the results in Section 4 can be
extended to this setting.20 About (2), some applications will be explained in the
next subsection, but the following discussion is convenient first.
    In contrast with the Lorentz case, many issues on Lorentz-Finsler metrics and
their cone structures have been developed only recently. A detailed study of this
general setting as well as of the tools to establish links with the present article is
carried out in [55]. Indeed, cone structures are studied both intrinsically and by
using a (highly non-unique) cone triple (Ω, T, F ) in a manifold N composed by a
1-form Ω a timelike vector field T such that Ω(T ) ≡ 1 and a Finsler metric F on
the kernel of Ω, the latter canonically determined by C once Ω and T have been
chosen. Observe that at each tangent space of N , one can obtain a decomposition
R × ker(Ω) ≡ Tp N using the vector field T and then an infinitesimal Zermelo
problem using the ball of F in ker(Ω) as admissible velocities (compare with (66)).
Moreover, these elements provide a Lorentz-Finsler metric (which is everywhere
smooth but on T , where it is smoothable anyway) L = Ω2 − F 2 and the cone
structure C emerges as the tangent vectors v which are lightlike (L(v) = 0) and
future-directed (Ω(v) > 0), see [55, Th. 1.2]. When the manifold splits, the setting
of standard stationary spacetimes is naturally reobtained by taking Ω = dt, T = ∂t
and F independent of the slice (moreover, a simple description in terms of non-
smooth static Finsler spacetimes as in [25] also emerges); obviously, F can also be
chosen t-dependent to deal with (2).
    Notice, however, that the above description from [55] uses a Finsler metric F
rather than a wind Finsler structure Σ. Nevertheless, there would not be any prob-
lem to describe C by using a triple where F is replaced by Σ: the latter would also
be canonically determined when the restriction of being timelike for T is dropped
(recall again (66)). The restriction to a timelike T (or a Finsler F ) can always be
done and gives a simple expression for the Lorentz-Finsler metric L, but it is not
especially relevant. Indeed, there are cases where a non-necessarily timelike vector
field Z with Ω(Z) ≡ 1 appears with independence of C (for example, when Z is
Killing as in the SSTK case or when it represents a priviledged field of observers as
in the generalized Zermelo problem below). In these cases, Z may play the role of
∂t and one can use a wind Finslerian structure Σ for the description of C.
9.4. Generalizations of Zermelo’s and applications to wave propagation.
(Ref. [49].) In accordance with the items (1) and (2) above, the Zermelo navigation
problem and Fermat’s principle considered in Sections 6 and 7 admit two natural
extensions, namely, when the velocity of propagation is anisotropic (i.e., depending
on the direction, beyond the existence of the wind) and time-dependent. Indeed, in
[55, Sect. 6], the authors also considered the above Lorentz-Finsler setting, showing
that the Zermelo problem reduces to Fermat’s principle and, then, that the cone
geodesics of C provide the solutions for Zermelo’s (notice that, because of time-
dependence, the used techniques are different and many of our sharp conclusions
   20Another type of generalization appears when K is timelike but the slices t = 0 are not
necessarily spacelike, as studied in [46]. If the timelike character of K were dropped, further wind
pseudo-Finsler structures would arise.
100                   E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


for the projections on slices are dropped). Clearly, this setting is applicable to
interesting situations as, for example, when the flight time of an airship is affected
by a time-dependent wind, eventually strong.
   More subtlety, the following application to wave propagation and wildfires, de-
veloped in [49] after the work by Markvorsen in [63, 64], holds. Consider a wave
which propagates in an anisotropic medium, the latter moving with respect to an
observer. For example, when a sound wave propagates in the air, the variations
of the properties of this medium such as pressure or temperature may yield an
anisotropic speed of propagation with respect to this medium. Moreover, the wind
may move the latter and, so, one should add the velocity of the air with respect
to Earth to the previous velocity with respect to the medium (one assumes that
the observer of the wave would remain at rest on Earth). Of course, the wind, as
well as the pressure or temperature, might vary with the space point and the time.
From an abstract viewpoint, this is modelled with a cone structure C, eventually
described by a cone triple (Ω = dt, ∂t , Σ), as explained at the previous subsection.
Moreover, in this setting, Σ is obtained as the translation of the indicatrix of a
Finsler metric F (velocities of the wave without perturbations) by a vector field
W (the wind). In this case, T = W + ∂t represents a sort of comoving field of
observers,21 which may be useful for modelling.
   When the Zermelo problem is time-dependent, it is no longer possible to reduce
the study of its solutions to classical Finsler metrics. A way to solve this problem
was firstly introduced by Markvorsen. Motivated by the problem of wildfire prop-
agation, this author introduced a Finsler approach for the time-independent case
[63] and, then, he considered rheonomic Lagrange manifolds and frozen metrics for
the time-dependent one [64]. The latter would correspond to study t-dependent
Finsler metrics in the spirit of (2’), but dropping the spacetime viewpoint. This
viewpoint is taken into account in [49] so that the “fastest trajectories” followed
by the wave (which will yield the frontwave at each instant of time) will become
lightlike geodesics of the Lorentz-Finsler metric L.
   More precisely, the wavefront propagation relies on a Zermelo problem starting
from a submanifold rather than from a point. Indeed, in order to compute the
evolution of a wave or wildfire, one needs to solve the Zermelo problem from the
present wavefront, which will be a codimension 2 submanifold S0 (a hypersurface
embedded in a slice t = t0 ) of the Finsler spacetime. In particular, Theorem 4.8
in [49] shows that the solutions to this Zermelo problem are given by the light-
like geodesics departing orthogonally from S0 , at least locally. When the wind is
time-independent such geodesics can be computed with a wind Finslerian structure
(which is a Finsler metric in the region of mild wind), see [49, Section 6].




   21When the wind is strong, comoving observers move at a speed bigger than the wave (recall
that our waves propagate in a material medium, and the relativistic situation of the light prop-
agating in vacuum is different). So, wind Finsler structures are relevant for the computation of
the actual arrival time of the wave measured by the rest observers at Z, see [49, Sect. 6]. The
modelling of wildfires has some particular subtleties, anyway, wind Finsler structures can be useful
to compute the evolution of the active firefront [49, Section 6.3].
                 WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                         101


            Appendix: List of some symbols and conventions
   In order to avoid heavy notations, we have made some abuses of notation when
there was no possibility of confusion. For the convenience of the reader, the main
ingredients of the notation are listed here.




   Symbol           Stays for                                         Reference
                    wind Minkowskian structure on a vector space
                    V;                                           Def. 2.3
   Σ
                    wind Finslerian structure on a manifold M
                                                                 Def. 2.8
                    (Σ = ∪p Σp )
                    indicatrix of a Minkowski norm;              below Def. 2.1
   ΣF
                    indicatrix of a Finsler manifold             Remark 2.9
   Σ̃               reverse wind Finsler structure                    Def. 2.17
   Mmild            region of mild wind
   Mcrit            region of critical wind                           Def. 2.11
   Ml               region of strong wind
                    (positively homogeneous) Minkowski norm;          Def. 2.1
                    conic    pseudo-Minkowski      norm,      conic
                                                                      Def. 2.4
   F                Minkowski norm, Lorentzian norm;
                    Finsler metric; conic pseudo-Finsler metric,      above Def. 2.8
                    Lorentzian Finsler metric;
                    conic Finsler metric associated to a wind Fins-
                                                                      Prop. 2.12
                    lerian manifold;
                    conic Finsler metric associated to a wind Rie-
                                                                      Eq. (18)
                    mannian manifold
                    Lorentzian norm associated with a strong
                                                                      Prop. 2.5
                    wind Minkowskian structure;
   Fl
                    Lorentzian Finsler metric associated to a wind
                                                                      Prop. 2.12
                    Finslerian manifold;
                    Lorentzian Finsler metric associated to a wind
                                                                      Eq. (22)
                    Riemannnian manifold
                    (open) conic domain in a vector space;            Def. 2.4
   A                domain of a conic Minkowski and a Lorentzian
                    norm associated with a wind Minkowskian           Prop. 2.5
                    structure;
                    (open) domain of a wind Finslerian structure
                                                                      Def. 2.8
                    (A = ∪p∈M Ap )
                    open domain of the conic Finsler metric F and
   Al = ∪p∈Ml Ap    the Lorentzian Finsler metric Fl of a strong      Def. 2.11
                    wind Finslerian structure
   AE               extended domain of wind Finslerian structures     Def. 2.11
                    extended definition of F and Fl to A ∪ AE         Conv. 2.19
102                       E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


      Symbol            Stays for                                        Reference

      B                 (open) unit ball for a wind Minkowskian          Def. 2.3
                        structure
      Bp                unit ball for Σp                                 Def. 2.8
        ±
      BΣ  (x0 , r)      forward/backward wind balls;
        ±                                                                Def. 2.26
      B̂Σ (x0 , r)      forward/backward c-balls;
        ±
      B̄Σ (x0 , r)      closed forward/backward wind balls
                        Σ-admissible curve;
                                                                         Def. 2.20-(i)
                        F -admissible curve;
                        wind curve;                                      Def. 2.20-(ii)
                        (strictly) regular curve                         Def. 2.20-(iii)
      CxΣ0 ,x1          set of wind curves;
      CxA0 ,x1          set of F -wind curves;                           below Ex. 2.23
      ΩA
       x0 ,x1           set of F -admissible curves
      CxΣ0 ,x1 [a, b]   set of wind curves with domain [a, b]            Def. 2.37
      ψ                 wind variation, F -wind variation                Def. 2.37
      `F
                        wind lengths                                     Def. 2.20-(iv)
      `Fl
      dF                Finslerian separation                            Def. 2.24
                        unit extremizing (pre)geodesic                   Def. 2.35
                        minimizing, maximizing, boundary (unit)
                                                                         Def. 2.42
                        (pre)geodesic
                        (pre)geodesic                                    Def. 2.44
                                                                         Prop. 2.36
      γx0               (extremizing) exceptional geodesic at x0
                                                                         Def. 2.44
                   w-convex                                              Def. 2.45
                   geodesically convex                                   Prop. 2.34
      (L, g)       Lorentzian (m + 1)-manifold or spacetime              Subsect. 3.1
      g            metric of an SSTK                                     Def. 3.2
      gR           Riemannian metric on M
                   associated triple to a wind Riemannian structure; Def. 2.56
       (g0 , ω, Λ)
                   spacelike metric, shift and lapse of an SSTK      Prop. 3.3
      St      =
                   slice of any SSTK spacetime                       below Eq. (28)
      {t}×M
      R × TM       tangent space to R×M when the t-component         Conv. 3.5
                   becomes irrelevant
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                               103


    Symbol       Stays for                                               Reference
                                                                         Def. 4.4
                 limit curve
                                                                         Lem. 5.7
                 causal spacetime                                        Th. 4.9
                 strongly causal spacetime;
                 stably causal spacetime;                                Rem. 3.4
                 temporal function
                 causally simple spacetime;
                 globally hyperbolic spacetime;                          Th. 4.9
                 Cauchy hypersurface
    h            signature changing metric on M                          Eq. (34)
                 Lorentzian metric (of index m−1) on Ml equal
    h̃                                                                   Eq. (19)
                 to h/Λ2
    MΛ6=0        region where Λ does not vanish                          below Eq. (34)
    Np0 ,α       space of lightlike curves from p to the curve α         Eq. (48)
    Np0 ,lx1     case when α is the line lx1 = {(t, x1 ) : t ∈ R}        below Eq. (59)
                 arrival functional;                                     Eq. (49)
    T
                 arrival time functional                                 above Eq. (59)


                                        References
 [1] R. Abraham and J. E. Marsden, Foundations of Mechanics, Benjamin/Cummings Pub-
     lishing Co., Inc., Reading, Mass., 1978.
 [2] A. A. Agrachev and Y. L. Sachkov, Control Theory from the Geometric Viewpoint,
     Encyclopaedia of Mathematical Sciences, 87. Control Theory and Optimization, II. Springer-
     Verlag, Berlin, 2004.
 [3] F. Antonacci and P. Piccione, A Fermat principle on Lorentzian manifolds and applica-
     tions, Appl. Math. Lett., 9 (1996), 91–95.
 [4] D. Bao, C. Robles and Z. Shen, Zermelo navigation on Riemannian manifolds, J. Differ-
     ential Geom., 66 (2004), 377–435.
 [5] C. Barceló, S. Liberati and M. Visser, Analogue Gravity, Living Rev. Relativity, 8 (2005),
     12.
 [6] R. Bartolo, A. M. Candela and J. L. Flores, Connectivity by geodesics on globally
     hyperbolic spacetimes with a lightlike Killing vector field, Rev. Mat. Iberoamericana, 33
     (2017), 1–28.
 [7] R. Bartolo, E. Caponio, A.V. Germinario and M. Sánchez, Convex domains of Finsler
     and Riemannian manifolds, Calc. Var. Partial Differential Equations, 40 (2011), 335–356.
 [8] J. K. Beem, P. E. Ehrlich and K. L. Easley, Global Lorentzian Geometry, Marcel Dekker
     Inc., New York, second ed., 1996.
 [9] J. K. Beem and A. Królak, Cauchy horizon end points and differentiability, J. Math. Phys.,
     39 (1998), 6001–6010.
[10] R. Beig and P. T. Chruściel, Killing initial data, Classical Quantum Gravity, 14 (1997),
     A83–A92.
[11] A. N. Bernal and M. Sánchez, Smoothness of time functions and the metric splitting of
     globally hyperbolic spacetimes, Comm. Math. Phys., 257 (2005), 43–50.
[12] A. N. Bernal and M. Sánchez, Globally hyperbolic spacetimes can be defined as ‘causal’
     instead of ‘strongly causal’, Classical Quantum Gravity, 24 (2007), 745–749.
[13] L. Biliotti and M. A. Javaloyes, t-periodic light rays in conformally stationary spacetimes
     via Finsler geometry, Houston J. Math., 37 (2011), 127–146.
104                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


[14] O. F. Blanco, M. Sánchez and J. M. M. Senovilla, Structure of second-order symmetric
     Lorentzian manifolds, J. Eur. Math. Soc., 15 (2013), 595–634.
[15] R. L. Bryant, Some remarks on Finsler manifolds with constant flag curvature, Houston J.
     Math., 28 (2002), 221–262.
[16] A. M. Candela, Lightlike periodic trajectories in space-times, Ann. Mat. Pura Appl. (4),
     171 (1996), 131–158.
[17] A. M. Candela, J. L. Flores and M. Sánchez, Global hyperbolicity and Palais-Smale
     condition for action functionals in stationary spacetimes, Adv. Math. 218 (2008), 515–536.
[18] E. Caponio, A. Germinario and M. Sánchez, Convex regions of stationary spacetimes and
     Randers spaces. Applications to lensing and asymptotic flatness, J. Geom. Anal., 26 (2016),
     791–836.
[19] E. Caponio, F. Giannoni, A. Masiello, and S. Suhr, Connecting and closed geodesics
     of a Kropina metric, Adv. Nonlinear Stud. 21 (2021), 683–695.
[20] E. Caponio, M. A. Javaloyes and A. Masiello, Morse theory of causal geodesics in a
     stationary spacetime, Ann. Inst. H. Poincaré Anal. Non Linéaire, 27 (2010), 857–876.
[21] E. Caponio, M. A. Javaloyes and A. Masiello, On the energy functional on Finsler
     manifolds and applications to stationary spacetimes, Math. Ann., 351 (2011), 365–392.
[22] E. Caponio, M. A. Javaloyes and A. Masiello, Addendum to “Morse theory of causal
     geodesics in a stationary spacetime via Morse theory of geodesics of a Finsler metric” [Ann.
     I. H. Poincaré—AN 27 (3) (2010) 857–876], Ann. Inst. H. Poincaré Anal. Non Linéaire, 30
     (2013), 961–968.
[23] E. Caponio, M. A. Javaloyes and M. Sánchez, On the interplay between Lorentzian causal-
     ity and Finsler metrics of Randers type, Rev. Mat. Iberoamericana, 27 (2011), 919–952.
[24] E. Caponio and E. Minguzzi, Solutions to the Lorentz force equation with fixed charge-to-
     mass ratio in globally hyperbolic spacetimes, J. Geom. Phys., 49 (2004), 176–186.
[25] E. Caponio and G. Stancarone, Standard static Finsler spacetimes, Int. J. Geom. Methods
     Mod. Phys., 13 (2016), 1650040.
[26] E. Caponio and G. Stancarone, On Finsler spacetimes with a timelike Killing vector field,
     Classical Quantum Gravity, 35 (2018), 085007.
[27] C. Carathéodory, Calculus of Variations and Partial Differential Equations of the First
     Order, Holden-Day Inc., San Francisco, Calif., 1967.
[28] A. Carrasco and M. Mars, On marginally outer trapped surfaces in stationary and static
     spacetimes, Classical Quantum Gravity, 25 (2008), 055011, 19.
[29] X. Cheng and Z. Shen, Finsler Geometry. An approach via Randers spaces, Science Press
     Beijing, Beijing; Springer, Heidelberg, 2012,
[30] P. Chruściel, J. Costa and M. Heusler, Stationary black holes: uniqueness and beyond,
     Living Rev. Relativity, 15 (2012).
[31] P. T. Chruściel, J. H. G. Fu, G. J. Galloway and R. Howard, On fine differentiability
     properties of horizons and applications to Riemannian geometry, J. Geom. Phys., 41 (2002),
     1–12.
[32] P. T. Chruściel and J. D. E. Grant, On Lorentzian causality with continuous metrics,
     Classical Quantum Gravity, 29 (2012), 145001, 32.
[33] I. P. Costa e Silva, J. L. Flores, On the splitting problem for Lorentzian manifolds with
     an R-action with causal orbits, Ann. Henri Poincaré, 18 (2017), 1635–167.
[34] A. Fathi, A. Siconolfi, On smooth time functions, Math. Proc. Cambridge Philos. Soc., 2
     (2012), 303–339.
[35] J. L. Flores, J. Herrera and M. Sánchez, On the final definition of the causal boundary
     and its relation with the conformal boundary, Adv. Theor. Math. Phys., 15 (2011), 991–1057.
[36] J. L. Flores, J. Herrera and M. Sánchez, Gromov, Cauchy and causal boundaries for
     Riemannian, Finslerian and Lorentzian manifolds, Mem. Amer. Math. Soc., 226 (2013),
     vi+76.
[37] J. L. Flores and M. Sánchez, The causal boundary of wave-type spacetimes, J. High Energy
     Phys., (2008), JHEP03(2008)036.
[38] J. L. Flores and M. Sánchez, Geodesics in stationary spacetimes. Application to Kerr
     spacetime, Int. J. Theor. Phys., 8 (2002), 319-336.
[39] D. Fortunato, F. Giannoni and A. Masiello, A Fermat principle for stationary space-
     times and applications to light rays, J. Geom. Phys., 15 (1995), 159–188.
                    WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES                               105


[40] F. Giannoni, A. Masiello and P. Piccione, A Morse theory for light rays on stably causal
     Lorentzian manifolds, Annales de l’I.H.P., section A, 69 (1998), 359–412.
[41] F. Giannoni, A. Masiello and P. Piccione, The Fermat principle in General Relativity
     and applications, J. Math. Phys., 43 (2002), 563–596.
[42] G. Gibbons, C. Herdeiro, C. Warnick and M. Werner: Stationary metrics and optical
     Zermelo-Randers-Finsler geometry, Phys. Rev. D, 79 (2009), 044022.
[43] G. Gibbons, and C. Warnick, Traffic noise and the hyperbolic plane, Ann. Phys., 325
     (2010), 909–923.
[44] G. Gibbons, and C. Warnick, The geometry of sound rays in a wind, Contemporary Physics,
     52 (2011), 197–209.
[45] S. G. Harris, Static- and Stationary-complete spacetimes: algebraic and causal structures,
     Classical Quantum Gravity, 32 (2015), 135026.
[46] J. Herrera and M. A. Javaloyes, Stationary-complete spacetimes with non-standard split-
     tings and pre-Randers metrics. J. Geom. Phys., 163 (2021), 104120.
[47] M. A. Javaloyes, Chern connection of a pseudo-Finsler metric as a family of affine con-
     nections, Publ. Math. Debrecen, 84 (2014), 29–43.
[48] M. A. Javaloyes, L. Lichtenfelz and P. Piccione, Almost isometries of non-reversible
     metrics with applications to stationary spacetimes, J. Geom. Phys., 89 (2015), 38–49.
[49] M.A. Javaloyes, E. Pendás-Recondo and M. Sánchez. Applications of cone structures to
     the anisotropic rheonomic Huygens’ principle, Nonlinear Analysis, 209 (2021), 112337.
[50] M. A. Javaloyes and M. Sánchez, A note on the existence of standard splittings for con-
     formally stationary spacetimes, Classical Quantum Gravity, 25 (2008), 168001, 7.
[51] M. A. Javaloyes and M. Sánchez, On the definition and examples of Finsler metrics, Ann.
     Scuola Norm. Sup. Pisa Cl. Sci. (5), 13 (2014), 813–858.
[52] M. A. Javaloyes and M. Sánchez, Finsler metrics and relativistic spacetimes, Int. J. Geom.
     Methods Mod. Phys., 11 (2014), 1460032.
[53] M. A. Javaloyes and M. Sánchez, Wind Riemannian spaceforms and Randers-Kropina
     metrics of constant flag curvature, Eur. J. Math., 3 (2017), 1225–1244.
[54] M. A. Javaloyes and M. Sánchez, Some criteria for wind Riemannian completeness and
     existence of Cauchy hypersurfaces in Lorentzian Geometry and Related Topics, vol. 211 of
     Springer Proc. Math. Stat., Springer, Cham, 2017, 117–151.
[55] M. A. Javaloyes and M. Sánchez, On the definition and examples of cones and Finsler
     spacetimes, RACSAM, 114 (2020), 30.
[56] M. A. Javaloyes and B. Soares, Geodesics and Jacobi fields of pseudo-Finsler manifolds,
     Publ. Math. Debrecen, 87 (2015), 5.
[57] I. Kovner, Fermat principles for arbitrary space-times, Astrophysical Journal, 351 (1990),
     114–120.
[58] T. Levi-Civita, Über Zermelo’s Luftfahrtproblem., Z. Angew. Math. Mech., 11 (1931), 314–
     322.
[59] M. Ludvigsen, General Relativity. A Geometric Approach., Cambridge Univ. Press, Cam-
     bridge, 2004.
[60] L. A. Lyusternik and A. I. Fet, Variational problems on closed manifolds, Doklady Akad.
     Nauk SSSR (N.S.), 81 (1951), 17–18.
[61] D. Maerten, Killing initial data revisited, J. Math. Phys., 45 (2004), 2594–2599.
[62] B. Manià, Sopra un problema di navigazione di Zermelo, Math. Ann., 113 (1937), 584–599.
[63] S. Markvorsen, A Finsler geodesic spray paradigm for wildfire spread modelling, Nonlinear
     Anal. Real World Appl., 28 (2016), 208–228.
[64] S. Markvorsen. Geodesic sprays and frozen metrics in rheonomic Lagrange manifolds,
     arXiv:1708.07350 [math.DG], (2017).
[65] M. Mars and M. Reiris, Global and uniqueness properties of stationary and static space-
     times with outer trapped surfaces, Comm. Math. Phys., 322 (2013), 633–666.
[66] A. Masiello and P. Piccione, Shortening null geodesics in Lorentzian manifolds. Applica-
     tions to closed light rays, Differential Geom. Appl., 8 (1998), 47–70.
[67] H.-H. Matthias, Zwei Verallgemeinerungen eines Satzes von Gromoll und Meyer, Disser-
     tation, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität, Bonner Mathematische Schriften, Bonn,
     1980.
106                  E. CAPONIO, M. A. JAVALOYES, AND M. SÁNCHEZ


[68] V. S. Matveev, Can we make a Finsler metric complete by a trivial projective change?, in
     Recent trends in Lorentzian geometry, vol. 26 of Springer Proc. Math. Stat., Springer, New
     York, 2013, 231–242.
[69] E. Minguzzi, On the existence of maximizing curves for the charged-particle action, Classical
     Quantum Gravity, 20 (2003) 4169–4175.
[70] E. Minguzzi and M. Sánchez, Connecting solutions of the Lorentz force equation do exist,
     Comm. Math. Phys., 264 (2006), 349–370.
[71] E. Minguzzi and M. Sánchez, The causal hierarchy of spacetimes, in Recent developments
     in pseudo-Riemannian geometry, ESI Lect. Math. Phys., Eur. Math. Soc., Zürich, 2008,
     299–358.
[72] B. O’Neill, Semi-Riemannian Geometry, Academic Press Inc. , New York, 1983.
[73] B. O’Neill, The geometry of Kerr black holes. A K Peters, Ltd., Wellesley, MA, 1995.
[74] V. Perlick, On Fermat’s principle in general relativity. I. The general case, Classical Quan-
     tum Grav., 7 (1990), 1319–1331.
[75] V. Perlick, Gravitational lensing from a spacetime perspective, Living Rev. Relativ-
     ity,(2004).
[76] H.-B. Rademacher, Nonreversible Finsler metrics of positive flag curvature, in A sampler
     of Riemann-Finsler geometry, vol. 50 of Math. Sci. Res. Inst. Publ., Cambridge Univ. Press,
     Cambridge, 2004, 261–302.
[77] M. Sánchez, Some remarks on causality theory and variational methods in Lorentzian man-
     ifolds, Conf. Semin. Mat. Univ. Bari, 265 (1997).
[78] M. Sánchez, Timelike periodic trajectories in spatially compact Lorentz manifolds, Proc.
     Amer. Math. Soc., 127 (1999), 3057–3066.
[79] M. Sánchez, On causality and closed geodesics of compact Lorentzian manifolds and static
     spacetimes, Differential Geom. Appl., 24 (2006), 21–32.
[80] U. Serres, Geometry and feedback classification of low-dimensional non-linear control sys-
     tems. Mathematics [math]. Université de Bourgogne, 2006. English. htel-00172902i. Available
     at https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-00172902
[81] Z. Shen, Lectures on Finsler Geometry, World Scientific Publishing Co., Singapore, 2001.
[82] Z. Shen, Finsler metrics with K = 0 and S = 0, Canad. J. Math., 55 (2003), 112–132.
[83] M. Tanaka and S. V. Sabau, The cut locus and distance function from a closed subset of a
     Finsler manifold, Houst. J. Math., 42 (2016), 1157–1197.
[84] F. J. Tipler, Existence of closed timelike geodesics in Lorentz spaces, Proc. Amer. Math.
     Soc., 76 (1979), 145–147.
[85] K. Uhlenbeck, A Morse theory for geodesics on a Lorentz manifold., Topology, 14 (1975),
     69–90.
[86] R. von Mises, Zum Navigationsproblem der Luftfahrt., Z. f. angew. Math., 11 (1931), 373–
     381.
[87] R. M. Wald, General Relativity, University of Chicago Press, Chicago, IL, 1984.
[88] J. Whitehead, Convex regions in the geometry of paths, Q. J. Math., Oxf. Ser., 3 (1932),
     33–42, with an addendum.
[89] R. Yoshikawa and S. V. Sabau, Kropina metrics and Zermelo navigation on Riemannian
     manifolds, Geom. Dedicata, 171 (2014), 119-148.
[90] E. Zermelo, Über das Navigationsproblem bei ruhender oder veränderlicher Windverteilung.,
     Z. Angew. Math. Mech., 11 (1931), 114–124.
              WIND FINSLERIAN STRUCTURES AND SPACETIMES          107


Dipartimento di Meccanica, Matematica e Management,
Politecnico di Bari, Via Orabona 4,
70125, Bari, Italy
Email address: erasmo.caponio@poliba.it

Departamento de Matemáticas,
Universidad de Murcia,
Campus de Espinardo,
30100 Espinardo, Murcia, Spain
Email address: majava@um.es

Departamento de Geometrı́a y Topologı́a, Facultad de Ciencias,
& IMAG (Centro de Excelencia Marı́a de Maeztu)
Universidad de Granada,
Campus Fuentenueva s/n,
18071 Granada, Spain
Email address: sanchezm@ugr.es
