      The American Mathematical Monthly




      ISSN: 0002-9890 (Print) 1930-0972 (Online) Journal homepage: https://www.tandfonline.com/loi/uamm20




Exploring the Brachistochrone Problem

LaDawn Haws & Terry Kiser

To cite this article: LaDawn Haws & Terry Kiser (1995) Exploring the Brachistochrone Problem,
The American Mathematical Monthly, 102:4, 328-336, DOI: 10.1080/00029890.1995.11990579

To link to this article: https://doi.org/10.1080/00029890.1995.11990579




       Published online: 10 Apr 2018.



       Submit your article to this journal



       Article views: 7



       View related articles



       Citing articles: 1 View citing articles




                      Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
            https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=uamm20
      Exploring the Brachistochrone Problem

                       LaDawn Haws and Terry Kiser



1. MAKING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE ACCESSIBLE. In light of the attention
given to a national crisis in mathematics education, concerned mathematics in-
structors are always looking for innovative ways to present and reinforce ideas. For
a generation that grew up with fast paced MTV and special effects movies like Star
Wars, the classroom may appear to be a fairly dull environment with uncompro-
mising standards. Computer technology can help educators compete for students'
attention and at the same time enhance the learning process by
  1) bringing an added dimension-visualization-to the presentation of mathe-
     matical concepts,
  2) giving students greater flexibility to explore and discover ideas on their own,
  3) making more advanced topics accessible to a wider range of classes.
   These learning aspects will be discussed in the context of some Mathematica
packages for exploring the classic Brachistochrone problem and interesting varia-
tions.
   The Brachistochrone Problem, to find the curve joining two points along which
a frictionless bead will descend in minimal time, is typically introduced in an
advanced course on the Calculus of Variations. The statement of this problem is
easily understood, even for high school students, when phrased in a more familiar
context as follows: "What shape should a roller coaster track have so the car will
travel from a high point A to a low point B as fast as possible?" This form of the
statement of the problem, however, has resulted in some unexpected and amusing
responses from students who were asked to draw what they thought would be a
"fast track."
   The authors have written a Mathematica command called Race that allows
students to explore this problem graphically. We have developed several activities
and exercises for students with a wide variety of mathematical abilities, from
algebra to differential equations. The student may design a path, or several paths,
and Race will produce a plot of the paths, their lengths, times of descent and,
optionally, an animation of beads racing down the paths.
   The exciting part is that Race enables students to experiment on their own with
different shaped curves to gain intuition and formulate criteria for a "fast curve"
without needing the mathematical expertise to solve the problem. Articulating
criteria such as,
  • the curve should start out with a steep descent to build up velocity quickly, but
  • the steep part should not be "too long" or the advantage gained in increased
    acceleration will be lost in increased path length,
requires a good understanding of slope, velocity, acceleration, and arc-length;
fairly sophisticated stuff for pre-calculus or even high school students!


328                EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                      [April
                                 Racing Tbe Bracbistocbrone
                        Line(top), length = 3.724
                  Frame Cycloid(middle), length = 4.
                  #9    Circle(bottom), length = 4.432
                                                                      x axis




                                                               (3.14, 2.)

                                TIMES(comparison w jFastestRaced)
                                  Line: 0.656it (18.5% Sl~er)
                                  Cycloid: 0.55J86 (0% F~test)
                                  Circle: 0.56791 {2.54% Slower)
                       y axis

                   Figure 1. A Mathematica simulation generated by Race



   The well known solution curve, the cycloid, makes the optimal compromise
between steepness versus path length and is easily derived from the Euler-Lagrange
equation. Of course, this tool is not available in most undergraduate mathematics
classes, but that does not mean the underlying problem is inaccessible to these
students. Instead of simply presenting the cycloid as an interesting example of a
parametric curve, as is typically done in a 1st or 2nd semester calculus class, its
special features can be developed-in fact, the students can discover them for
themselves.
   Students in a beginning differential equations course can understand the
derivation and solution of the differential equation governing the Brachistochrone.
They are already familiar with minimization criteria (to minimize f(x), consider
solutions to f'(x) = 0), so the Euler-Lagrange equation is not hard for them to
swallow and should not be a deterrent from investigating this application.
   Use of Mathematica as a basis for exploring the Brachistochrone problem is a
prime example of how technology can allow students to go beyond standard
textbook applications and address more realistic or current applications. For
example, a natural question to ask concerning the Brachistochrone problem is
what happens if friction or air resistance is included in the model? This is
discussed later in this article. The messy calculations that are typical in many
real-world applications and (up to now) made them off limits in the undergraduate
classroom can be handled by the computer, with possibly some surprising results to
student and instructor alike.
   There are many applications that computer technology now makes accessible at
all levels. One challenge to all of us as educators is to make creative use of this
technology. The Mathematica command Race and accompanying packages along
with a notebook of examples is available upon request. This article will conclude
with some specific examples illustrating these exercises.

2. PRE-CALCULUS AND CALCULUS. An engaging way to present this topic is
to begin by testing the students' intuition. We have broken classes up into groups
and asked them to draw and discuss what they think is the fastest curve. In
addition, we have created a Mathematica package that allows students to "draw"

1995]              EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                       329
their curve on the computer screen and generates a simulation from a speedier,
scaled down version of Race (this has been used several times to provide a
computer lab experience for 7th-9th grade students as a part of a "Math Field
Day"' project held annually at Chico State University). We next give a "live"
demonstration of marbles racing down wooden ramps, roughly in the shape of a
cycloid and a straight line. This demonstration generates a great deal of excite-
ment, which just goes to show that the "old technology" still has its place. It also
provides a concrete time scale which is necessary for qualifying what constitutes a
"close" race. Even in our differential equations classes where the majority of the
students deduce on their own that the marble rolling down the cycloidal ramp will
beat the marble on the straight line ramp, many are surprised at the margin of
victory.
   The focus of the presentation should be a graphical exploration of the criteria
that makes the cycloid a fast curve, not on its derivation as the fastest curve. The
details concerning the cycloid can be adjusted depending on the level of the class.
We use a Mathematica animation to present the cycloid as the curve generated by
tracing a point on a rolling circle (due to Stan Wagon at Macalester College) and
in a Calculus course it is appropriate to derive the parametric equations. Even
after the cycloid is presented as the solution to the Brachistochrone problem, there
are many interesting questions to investigate that depend on physical or graphical
intuition. For example, a traditional graphing exercise for a pre-calculus class can
be spiced up by asking for the fastest curve among a class of familiar functions
(especially appropriate if these functions have recently been studied) but with an
unknown parameter. This motivates the need to graph several examples of the
function in question so they can apply their newly gained intuition on what makes
a fast curve. Then, they can Race their graphs to check their intuition. Test your
intuition on the examples below.
2.1. Finding a Fast Parabola. Find the fastest parabola that starts at the origin
and ends at a given point, say, (3, 2) (in this article we will always take the positive
y-axis to be oriented downward). Since there are three unknowns in a quadratic,
we are free to impose one more condition. Let's take the x-coordinate of the
vertex, m, to be our unknown parameter. Below are graphs for m = 2, 2.5, 3, and
3.5. Which of these is the fastest curve and how does this value of m compare with
the optimal value for m giving the fastest of all such parabolas? The cycloid ending
at the point (3, 2) is included to add some perspective. The Mathematica generated
plot of times of descent versus m for a wide range of values of m indicates that the
fastest of all such parabolas is found with m ::::: 2.5 (not the parabola with its vertex
at the ending point which is a popular choice-numerical minimization verifie,s
that m == 2.494).

                       2       3

                                               0.58
                                    m = 2


      2


      y axis                                          L-~~---------+--m
                                                          2        2.5           3.

                              Figure 2. Finding a fast parabola


330                 EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                             [April
2.2. Finding the Fastest Nth Root. This is a good family of curves for exploring
the trade off between steepness versus path length. Below are graphs of y =
2(xj7T ) 11n, for n = 2, 4, and 6. The fastest of these curves is very competitive with
the cycloid, being only slightly more than 1% slower; this would not be discernible
with a live model. Can you tell which one it is?

                 +----------+-----+----x-axis




                2
                                                                  hr, 2)
                y axis

                           Figure 3. Nth roots-Steep vs Path length


   The answer is n = 2. This has always surprised our audiences, both faculty and
students, especially when a plot of the cycloid is not included.

3. ADDING A SMALL DOSE OF REALI1Y. Inevitably, any discussion about the
importance of computer technology to mathematics will bring up the ability to
address more realistic applications. We strongly agree and yet here we are
presenting an application that is only valid if it takes place in a vacuum and we
ignore frictional forces! It is vital that students don't leave our classes with
incorrect insight because of the setting we choose to present an application. Is this
a critical issue for this problem? What happens if kinetic friction or air resistance
is included in the Brachistochrone model? The Mathematica simulation allows the
user to include a coefficient of friction to see its effect on the descent time for any
curve. A typical coefficient of friction, to be denoted as /J-, will be less than or
equal to 0.1. A cycloid ending at the point ( 7T, 2) with IL = .1 is approximately 3%
slower than a cycloid with no friction.
    Although kinetic friction has seemingly little effect on the travel time, the
question still remains as to what is the effect on the shape of the fastest curve
when friction is included in the model for the Brachistochrone problem. Is the
cycloid still the fastest curve? If there is a new fastest curve, is it initially steeper
than the cycloid lying below it or shallower and lying above it? Physical insight
alone can play a key role in answering these qualitative questions. The solution
when kinetic friction is included (this will be derived below for a simplified model
of friction) has significantly different graphical characteristics and is an interesting
generalization of the cycloid.
    It is helpful to begin by motivating what graphical and physical insight suggests
will be the effect of including friction. Depending on the level of the course, the
solution can be derived or merely presented graphically and compared to other
curves. The frictional force is assumed to be proportional to the normal compo-
nent of the weight of the bead and acting in the negative tangential direction (see
Figure 4). Due to the curvature of the path, the normal component of acceleration

1995]                EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                           331
                                               N (unit normal)


                                                            (a, b)
                                               T (unit tangent)

                                          mg
                       y axis

                                        Figure 4




also contributes to the frictional force. We generally neglect this component of the
friction in our initial discussions and derivations with students in a differential
equations course. Students are more familiar with the weight component from
studying inclined planes in physics and this is usually challenge enough. The more
realistic solution, however, is presented graphically and can lead to interesting
discussions as to why it differs from the cycloid or the new Brachistochrone using
the simpler model of friction. This simplified model incorporates some interesting
qualitative changes and has the additional advantage_ that the derivation of the
solution is accessible in an introductory differential equations course since the
equation of motion remains integrable (a more accurate treatment requires a
constrained variational technique and, amazingly enough, it can still be solved in
terms of elementary, albeit, messy functions-see [1])..
    Before proceeding with a derivation of the solution, let's develop some qualita-
tive insight by doing a simple physical analysis, that is, let's compare the forces
with friction included versus no friction where we know the shape of the solution is
a cycloid. Neglecting curvature, the magnitude of the force of friction is less at
steep points on a curve, ranging from zero at a vertical tangent to the whole weight
at a horizontal tangent. Since the lesson learned from the classical Brachis-
tochrone problem, heuristically speaking, is that steepness is most important
initially, this suggests that steepness will now be given more weight (versus path
length) and the optimal curve, which should still have an initial vertical tangent,
will be slightly steeper or below the cycloid (at least for the "beginning" portion of
the curve). Since the normal component of acceleration is proportional to the
square of the speed, one might expect just the opposite to be the case when it is
included in the model for friction. Starting off steeper would force more curvature
for the latter portion of the path when there is a greater velocity.

3.1. Derivation of the Fastest Cone With Kinetic Friction. Take the starting point
to be the origin and orient the positive y-axis downward. We seek the fastest curve
y(x) starting at (0, 0) and ending at an arbitrary point (a, b).
   If we ignore friction, then we can apply the conservation of energy, or equiva-
lently, equate work with change in kinetic energy to obtain v = ,j2gy where the
velocity v is given as dsjdt. Including friction forces us to do a line integral to find
the work or, alternatively, we can start with the equation of motion as follows. At a
point (x, y) on the curve, the unit tangent and normal vectors, illustrated in Figure


332                 EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                        [April
4, can be written in terms of arc-length s as,
                         dx.     dy.                                  dy     dx
                    T = - • + - J and N =                         -   ds i + dsj.
                         ds      ds
The forces of gravity and friction are given by,
                                                                                       dx
         Fgravity = mg j    and     Ffriction =          - JL(F8 ravily • N)T = - JLmg ds T ·
So, the components along the curve (i.e. in the direction of T) are
                                       dy                                           dx
                Fcravity • T =   mg ds      and          Ffriction • T =   - JLmg ds .

Using these components in Newton's first law gives,
                                   dv               dy                dx
                                 m- = mg-- JLmg-                                                (1)
                                   dt               ds                ds
and substituting
                                  dv     dv   1 d     2
                                  dt = v ds = 2 ds ( v )
into (1) yields, after integration w.r.t. s,
                    1
                    2v 2 = g(y- JLX)            or        v = .J2g(y- JLX).
Apply the chain rule to v = ds 1dt and use the arc-length formula for ds 1dx to
solve for dx I dt as a function of x, which can be inverted to give the total time.


                         T(x, y, y') =      t
                                            a
                                                      1 + ( y')2
                                                     ----dx.
                                                         2g(y-JLX)
                                                                                                (2)

Since the computations become quite messy, what follows will just be an outline of
the major steps. Apply the Euler-Lagrange equation,
                                        d
                                       -(F.)-F=O
                                       dx y   y


where F is the integrand in equation (2) to obtain the 2nd order differential
equation,
                     (1 + ( y') 2 )(1 + JLY') + 2( y- JLX)y" = 0.
Through two substitutions and a partial fractions integration, this can be reduced
to,
                                  1 + (y')
                                                2
                                                              c
                                                2
                                                                                                (3)
                                  (1 + JLy')               y- JLX

for some non-negative constant C.
   Following the lead from the classical problem, the substitution y' = cot(8 12)
into (3) can be used to obtain a parametric solution for the optimal curve.
Denoting the parametrization for the cycloid as,
                xc(8) =p(8- sin8)            and           Yc(8) =p(1- cos8),



1995]                EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                                      333
the new fastest curve for the "frictional" Brachistochrone problem can be given in
the form,
                              x(8) = xc(8) + J.Lp(l- cos 8)

                               y(8) = Yc(8) + J.Lp(8 +sin 8).                                    (4)

The parameterizations in (4) and for the cycloid are valid for a range 0 :s; 8 :s; 81 ,
where p and 81 must be determined so the curves pass through the ending point
(a, b).
   Figure 5 compares this new curve with the cycloid. Note the similar repetitive
pattern with vertical tangents at even multiples of rrp; however, the minimums do
not occur at the same place. We have indicated a sloping line at which this new
curve stops as opposed to making it back to the x-axis.


                         ~p                            3~p            4~p
        ~--~-~-~-~---~~-------r--------+--------;~-------x-mtis
                  -----              y = IJ.X
                                                 ----
        2p
                                                                            Fastest Curve
                                                                            with friction
        y ws

                              Figure 5. A generalization of the Cycloid



   This line is called the "line of repose" and has the minimum slope, JL, for which
the bead will begin to slide. The solution derived above is not valid for y < JLX.
This places a restriction on allowable ending points, which is consistent with our
physical insight that, due to the loss of energy to friction, the bead can't make it
back to its original height. Given a valid ending point, there is a unique curve of
this form starting at the origin with a vertical tangent. Figure 6, generated from
Race, gives a better comparison of this "frictional" Brachistochrone versus the
classic Brachistochrone, a cycloid. Both were raced with a coefficient of friction
JL = 0.1 and their times are compared to the cycloid without friction.



                        The Brac:histochrone Problem With Frk:tlon
                 -Cycloid(top), length = 3.648
                 Fastest w/friction (bottom), length = 3.821
             -1--~~~--+---------~----------~-----x-ws


                                                                       (3., 0.3)




                               TIMES(comparison wjCycloid)
                                 Cycloid: 0.77439 (21.7% Slower)
                                 Fastest: 0.7654 (20.3% Slower)
             y axis

          Figure 6. A race between Brachistrochrones with coefficient of friction,,.,. = 0.1


334                   EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                                    [April
   For all valid ending points, the new fastest curve lies below the cycloid
throughout its entire length, and placing the ending point on the line of repose
gives the greatest distinction between the two curves. With a more accurate
treatment of the frictional forces, as mentioned earlier, the fastest curve lies above
the cycloid for its entire length (see Figure 7 with p. = 0.1) and the ending point
must satisfy the strict inequality, y < p.x, since the bead takes infinite time to
reach the line of repose. Consistent with our earlier intuition that the normal
component of acceleration puts a higher penalty on curvature, Figure 7 indicates
that as the coefficient of friction increases the more realistic frictional Brachis-
tochrone will approach a straight line.


                          Brachistochrones (Realistic Friction Model)




         y axis

           Figure 7. Realistic "frictional" Brachistochrones approaching a straight line



   The reader should not be misled into thinking that all of the graphical and
physical intuition that has been developed in this article was known to the authors
before beginning a computer-aided investigation of the Brachistochrone problem
and variations. In fact, this is one of the main points of this article; just as the
authors gained valuable insight through computer generated graphics and simula-
tions, so will students at all levels increase their mathematical intuition with these
tools and be provided the opportunity to begin exploring questions they would
have never even thought of before.

4. ADDITIONAL PROBLEMS. We have looked at other variations of the classic
Brachistochrone problem. Many interesting questions can be generated by restrict-
ing the class of admissible curves, as with the fastest parabola or nth root problems
given earlier. One that we find particularly enjoyable is the "Two Line" Brachis-
tochrone problem: Find the "break" point for the fastest two straight line segment
curve joining the origin and the ending point. A similar problem has appeared
several times in the problems section of the MAA Monthly; there the question was
whether or not the time of travel along the two line segments were equal for the
optimal break point (answered in E1255 [1977, 652]). A program like Mathematica
makes it easy for students to find the break point numerically, which frees them to
investigate other questions, such as the problem posed in the Monthly or to look
for cases where there is a simple algorithm for finding the break point.
   Similar to the constrained variational problem with friction included in the
model, is the question of what effect air resistance has on the fastest curve. We are
currently attempting to solve this problem numerically so the solution can be

1995]                EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                                 335
presented graphically in our classes and compared with other curves, although it
seems likely that the effect of air resistance may be far less significant than the
effect of friction.
   The Two Lines problem is included in our Brachistochrone notebook and an
article concerning the use of Mathematica to investigate more realistic treatments
of friction and air resistance is in preparation. We invite questions or discussions
on these problems and will send completed or partially completed materials upon
request.

REFERENCE

1.   N. Ashby, W. E. Brittin, W. F. Love and W. Wyss, Brachistochrone With Coulomb Friction,
     American Journal of Physics, Vol. 43, No. 10 (October 1975), 902-905.


Department of Mathematics & Statistics
California State University, Chico
Chico, CA 95929
lhaws@oavax.csuchico.edu
tkiser@oa vax.csuchico. edu




                                   PICTURE PUZZLE
                           (from the collection of Paul Halmos)




                                  What conspiracy is this?
                                        (see page 344.)




336                      EXPLORING THE BRACHISTOCHRONE PROBLEM                        [April
