Article

Goedesics Completeness and Cauchy Hypersurfaces of Ricci
Solitons on Pseudo-Riemannian Hypersurfaces at the Fictitious
Singularity: Schwarzschild-Soliton Geometries and
Generalized-Schwarzschild-Soliton Ones
Orchidea Maria Lecian 1,2

                                         1   Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, Viale Regina Elena 324,
                                             00185 Rome, Italy; lecian@icra.it or omlecian@gmail.com
                                         2   ICRA—International Center for Relativistic Astrophysics, c/o Physics Department, Sapienza University of
                                             Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy

                                         Abstract
                                         The methodology is developed here to write Ricci solitons on the newly found structure of
                                         the pseudo-spherical cylinder. The methodology is specified for Schwarzschild solitons and
                                         for Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons. Accordingly, a new classification is written for the
                                         Schwarzschild solitons and for the Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons. The rotational field
                                         is spelled out. The potential for a tangent vector field is used. The conditions are recalled
                                         to discriminate which submanifold of a Ricci manifold is a soliton or is an almost-Ricci
                                         soliton. It is my aim to prove that a concurrent vector field is uniquely determined after
                                         the 4-velocity vector of a Schwarzschild soliton. As a result, the analytically specified
                                         manifold, which is a spacelike submanifold of the Schwarzschild spacetime that admits
                                         Ricci solitons. The rotational killing fields are tangent to the event horizon. The conditions
                                         that are needed to match the new aspects are spelled out analytically. As a result, the two
                                         manifolds described in the work of Bardeen et al. about the requested mass of a stationary,
                                         axisymmetric solution of the Einstein Field Equations of the spacetime, which contains
Academic Editor: Angel Ricardo           a blackhole surrounded with matter from the new results obtained after correcting the
Plastino                                 work of Hawking 1972 about would-be point ’beyond the conjugate point’ on the analytic
Received: 21 October 2025                continuation of the would-be geodesics: they are proven here to become the tangent
Revised: 22 November 2025                manifold (which is expressed from the tangent bundle in General-Relativistic notation).
Accepted: 26 November 2025
                                         The prescription here is based on one of the books of Landau et al., that the matter is not put
Published: 2 December 2025
                                         into the metric tensor, not even in the ultra-Relativistic limit. This way, the pseudo-spherical
Citation: Lecian, O.M. Goedesics
                                         cylinder is one implemented from the Minkowskian description and whose asymptotical
Completeness and Cauchy
Hypersurfaces of Ricci Solitons on
                                         limit is proven. The new methodology allows one to describe the outer region of the
Pseudo-Riemannian Hypersurfaces at       blackhole as one according to which the (union of the trapped) regions is one with null
the Fictitious Singularity:              support. For the purpose of the present investigation, the definition of concurrent vector
Schwarzschild-Soliton Geometries and     fields in General-Relativity is newly developed. As a further new result, the paradigm is
Generalized-Schwarzschild-Soliton
                                         implemented for the shrinking case, which admits as subcase the Schwarzschild manifolds
Ones. Axioms 2025, 14, 896. https://
                                         and the Generalized-Schwarzschild manifolds. The Penrose 1965 Theorem is discussed
doi.org/10.3390/axioms14120896
                                         for the framework outlined here; in particular, the presence of trapped hypersurfaces is
Copyright: © 2025 by the author.
                                         discarded. The no-hair theorem can now be discussed.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
                                         Keywords: Schwarzschild manifold; Ricci solitons; spacetime hypersurfaces
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
                                         MSC: 83C20
(https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/).




Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms14120896
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                             2 of 14



                       1. Introduction
                            In the work of Israel [1], static, asymptotically flat spacetimes in vacuum are analyzed,
                       which are endowed with simply-connected equipotential surfaces.
                            In the work of Hawking [2], the result is recalled—that a stationary blackhole has
                       topologically spherical boundary.
                            From the work of Bardeen et al. [3], the Schwarzschild manifolds are studied according
                       to the possibility of selecting Schwarzschild cylindrical manifolds from them, which are
                       asymptotically flat at infinity.
                            These manifolds here are selected according their possibility to admit a Schwarzschild
                       soliton. Such Schwarzschild soliton is characterized here. New insight is gained on the
                       generalized-Schwarzschild solitons.
                            The geometrical analysis is organized after developing new results from [4–11].
                            In the work of Barros et al. [7], the immersion of an almost-Ricci soliton into a
                       Riemannian manifold is studied. The relevant prescription from [10] is scrutinized.
                            In the work of Chen et al. [8], a Ricci soliton is studied, according to its concurrent
                       vector fields.
                            In the work [11], some of the necessary and sufficient conditions are worked out, for a
                       hypersurface of a Euclidean space to be a gradient Ricci soliton are given.
                            In the work of Bektas’ Demirci [4], the classification of Ricci solitons on pseudo-
                       Riemannian hypersurfaces on a 4-dimensional Minkowski space is achieved. The suitable
                       potential vector fields are taken, for which it is possible to prove the necessary and sufficient
                       condition for the pseudo-Riemannian surface to admit a Ricci soliton. As a result, three
                       kinds of manifolds are selected, i.e., the manifolds admitting shrinking Ricci solitons with
                       the chosen potential vector filed are the totally umbilical isoperimetrical hypersurfaces,
                       the hyperbolic hypersurfaces, and the pseudo-spherical cylinder in the Minkowski 4-
                       dimensional Minkowski space.
                            From the previous literature, new methods are developed in the present paper to
                       be applied to the Schwarzschild solitons and to the Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons
                       from [12] for the Penrose Theorem [13] to be applied.
                            In the present work, the procedures requested from [7] are used for Schwarzschild
                       manifolds, for which the presented results are proven to hold under stronger conditions.
                            In the present paper, the pseudo-spherical cylinder in general relativity is newly
                       developed.
                            After the definition of the new geometrical structures, the tasks in the present work are
                       accomplished to study the geodesics completeness of the chosen geometries at the fictitious
                       singularity r = rS following the new study of the Cauchy hypersurfaces. Furthermore,
                       the new structures of concurrent vector fields are in the present work, being newly built
                       and studied.
                            As a result, the outside region of the blackhole objects are studied as far as the presence
                       of the union of trapped regions of null support is concerned.
                            The novel implications regarding the Penrose 1965 Theorem [13] are newly implemented.
                            The Penrose 1965 Theorem [13] is discussed in the framework outlined here. In
                       particular, the presence of trapped hypersurfaces is discarded. The no-hair theorem can
                       now be discussed.
                            As a result, the structures are studied in the cases of shrinking solitons, which
                       are recently proven to be a subcase the Schwarzschild manifolds and the Generalized-
                       Schwarzschild manifolds. The corresponding manifolds are therefore newly metrized here.
                            The paper is organized as follows.
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                              3 of 14



                            In Section 1, the outline of the work is presented, and the concepts about the space-
                       time structure of the Schwarzschild solitons, which are developed in the present paper,
                       are proven.
                            In Section 2, the introductory material is presented.
                            In Section 3, the spacetime structure of a blackhole is introduced.
                            In Section 5, the spacetime structure of a blackhole is newly refined.
                            In Section 7, Ricci solitons on Riemannian submanifolds are newly prepared.
                            In Section 8, pseudo-Riemannian hypersurfaces admitting Ricci solitons are newly
                       discussed.
                            In Section 9, new theorems for Schwarzschild solitons are exposed.
                            In Section 10, a new classification of the Ricci solitons is provided; as a result, the
                       Killing vector fields of Schwarzschild spacetimes are analyzed.
                            In Section 11, new theorems about the Schwarzschild solitons are introduced.
                            In Appendix C, the scalings of the metric are discussed.
                            The Outlook is presented in Section 13.
                            In Appendix A, the Christoffel symbols used to perform the calculations of Schwarzschild
                       solitons are written.
                            In Appendix B, the Christoffel symbols used to perform the calculations of Generalized-
                       Schwarzschild solitons are written.
                            In Appendix C, the geometrical objects to discuss the scaling invariances and the
                       weight functions are written for the Schwarzschild solitons.

                       2. Introductory Material
                            From the work of Bektas’ Demirci [4], one recalls that, on a pseudo-Riemannian
                       manifold M, with X being the position vector, the position vector acts as a concurrent
                       vector field as
                                                            ˜ XX = X
                                                            ∇                                              (1)

                            The work [7–9] are outlined as follows.
                            From [7], the immersion of a Ricci soliton into a Riemannian manifold is considered.
                       This paper admits a Ricci soliton with potential vector field.
                            From [7], the shrinking Ricci solitons are proven apt to be immersed into a space with
                       constant means curvature as a Gauss soliton.
                            As an intermediate step, Ricci solitons on Euclidean manifolds are recalled here to be
                       classified with potential vector field arising from the position vector field of a Euclidean
                       hypersurface.

                       About the Killing Vector Field of the Schwarzschild Spacetime(s)
                             The velocity vector field of a Schwarzschild spacetime is characterized according to
                       the work of Bardeen et al. [3].
                             In [3], the stationary, axisymmetric, asymptotically flat space of a blackhole spacetime
                       is recalled to be the description of the asymptotical limit admitted after Schwarzschild-
                       blackhole spacetime.
                             The vector filed is K µ , which admits the condition

                                                                 k a k a = −1                                        (2)

                       i.e., it is timelike.
                              There exists a unique rotational Killing vector K̃ µ (i.e., one with non-vanishing rotor),
                       which is normalized as
                                                                 K̃ µ K̃µ = −1                                       (3)
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                             4 of 14



                              The components of the velocity are characterized as

                                                                               1
                                                                    v[ρ;µν] = − Rσρµν vσ                            (4)
                                                                               2
                            The surface elements are defined as follows: the surface element of ∂S is dΣµν , and the
                       surface element of S is dΣµ as in
                                                       Z                              Z
                                                                    [µ;ν]σ                     µ
                                                                k            dΣµν =           R ν kν dΣµ            (5)
                                                           ∂S                             S

                               For calculation, a spacelike surface is taken, which is asymptotically flat, tangent to
                       K̃ µ , and it intersects the Killing horizon as indicated in [2].

                       3. Selected Topics from the Previous Investigations
                            Selected investigation lines from [2] and from the pertinent items of bibliography are
                       summarized here.
                            From ibidem, the result shows that a stationary blackhole has a topologically spherical
                       boundary; furthermore, it is demonstrated that rotating blackholes are axisymmetric.
                            From ibidem, a blackhole on a spacelike surface is defined as the connected component
                       of the surface bounded after the event horizon. The region of the surface bounded after the
                       event horizon is taken.
                            Ibidem, the three requests are stated as follows:
                       (1)    The surface of a Relativistic star, which undergoes gravitational collapse, is described
                              as ’passing’ the Schwarzschild fictitious singularity;
                       (2)    The spacetimes admits a singularity;
                       (3)    The observers from the outer region do not observe the singularity.
                            The outer region is described such that the singularity is not observed by the observers,
                       which are outside the gravitational radius. In the outer region, the future is forecast from
                       Cauchy data on a spacelike surface.
                            Ibidem, the study of the stability is performed after the perturbations. Small perturba-
                       tions are studied in [14]. In [2], the conjecture that a blackhole establishes a Kerr solution of
                       the EFEs is taken.
                            Ibidem, the surface of a blackhole is shown not to decrease with time.

                       4. New Introductory Results
                       The Structure of a Blackhole Spacetime
                             The spacetime structure of a blackhole is introduced as follows, and will be refined in
                       Section 5.
                             The fictitious singularity is characterized from [1] as in the following outline.
                             The 3-dimensional part of the manifold of the fictitious singularity is prescribed in
                       relation to the 4-dimensional metric as

                                                   ds2 = gij ( x1 , x2 , x3 )dxi dx j − V 2 (t)dt2 ,                (6)

                       with
                                                                        V 2 =| ζ µ ζ µ | .                          (7)

                           The surface Σ is taken as the three-dimensional part of a four-dimensional manifold,
                       which corresponds to the slides x0 = const.
                           This way, it is proven that
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                                   5 of 14



                       Theorem 1. Σ is the only maximal extension of V 2 with respect to the vector field ζ µ when

                                                                     ζ µ ζ µ < 0.                                         (8)

                       Proof of Theorem 1. The surface Σ is the largest domain of the integral curves of ζ µ when
                       Equation (8) is requested. The vector field ζ µ is at least smooth, and there exists no strictly
                       larger manifolds compatible with the construction of such maximal extension.

                              The following description now holds and the definitions are therefore equivalent.
                              The gravitational potential V is taken from a Schwarzschild spacetime such that
                                                                          √
                                                                    V=        g00 .                                       (9)

                           The Killing vector field ζ µ characterizes a static spacetime manifold as it is static over
                       a domain, in which it is hypersurface-orthogonal.
                           The surface Σ is proven to be characterized as one with

                                                               gij = δij + O(r − 1),                                     (10)

                       with
                                                                 ∂k gij = O(r −2 ).                                      (11)

                              The limit r → ∞ is accomplished as the limit of r ≡
                                                                                        p
                                                                                            | ⃗r |2 and defines V as
                                                                             m
                                                                V = 1−            +κ                                     (12)
                                                                           | ⃗r |

                       where the properties of κ from [1] follow.
                             A weakly continuous, asymptotically simple space is taken from [14] of a spacetime
                       manifold M with metric gµν . M is then embedded in a larger manifold M̃ with metric g̃µν
                       as g̃µν Ω2 gµν (the metric g̃µν is further discussed in Section 11 and in Section 13).

                       5. New Results
                       Concurrent Vector Fields in General Relativity
                           The concurrent vector fields are characterized as follows from [15].
                           Let Rm be an m-dimensional Riemannian manifold, with non-vanishing Christoffel
                       symbols that define the covariant derivative D , And let Rm an immersed manifold of an
                       n-dimensional n-dimensional manifold Mn into Rm : the following definition is given.

                       Definition 1. X µ is a concurrent vector field if it is defined as

                                                                  dx + D X = 0                                           (13)

                       with x being the differential of the immersion.

                           The concurrent vector fields are further studied in [16]. Ibidem, complete linear
                       connection on the manifold which is called standard connection on the manifold is recalled.
                       Concurrency with respect to the standard connection is ibidem discussed.
                           From [16], the following theorem is worked out.

                       Theorem 2. A Riemannian connection is uniquely determined after the Riemannian metric.

                       Proof of Theorem 2. The Christoffel symbols are unique. Furthermore, there is no torsion,
                       no non-metric object, and no metric-asymmetricity object.
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                                6 of 14



                            Furthermore,

                       Definition 2. A vector is concurrent with respect to the metric tensor if it is concurrent with
                       respect to the corresponding Riemannian connection.

                             Some of the properties of the submanifold of a Riemannian manifold admitting a Ricci
                       soliton are studied in section 3 from [10] Section 3 ibidem. In the present paper, the concept
                       is developed into pseudo-Riemannian manifolds.
                             The Riemann immersions will be discussed in future work.

                       6. New Construction of the Spacetime
                            The space part of the manifold M is taken from [1], from which a thin-sandwich
                       conjecture can be implemented in a straightforward manner as with [17].
                            The boundaries of M are two null hypersurfaces J + and J − . J ∗ + and J − , which
                       have the topology of S2 ; J − is the past infinity, J + is the future infinity. The possibility of
                       forecasting events in the neighborhood of J + is now investigated.
                            The following definition is taken:

                       Definition 3. A weakly asymptotically simple space is ’future-asymptotically predictable’ if there
                       exists a spacelike Cauchy surface S which does not intersect any non-spacelike curve more than once.

                             Let D + S be the set of all points q such that, as requested in the guidelines from [2],
                       ’every past-directed non-spacelike curve from the set {q} intersects S if D + (S) is extended
                        far enough’. An asymptotically predictable space J ± is defined as follows:

                       Definition 4. In an asymptotically predictable space J ± , there are no naked singularities if the
                       future infinity is J + (S), and there exists at least one closed trapped surface T in D + S .

                            The following aspect of blackhole spacetimes is now fixed:

                       Theorem 3. The union of the closed trapped surfaces T of D + S is a null support.

                            From [2], the case of non-rotating blackholes is chosen here.
                            Different from [2], the blackhole spacetime regions from a connected component of
                       the region of the boundary after the event horizon is investigated. The singularities that
                       happen inside the fictitious singularity are not observed by the observer.
                            The property is newly defined as 3bis. The outer region is requested to be endowed
                       with at least one observer (i.e., the outsider) who is not ’observing’ the singularity.
                            The statement 3bis is now proven to be equivalent to the choice of the surface on the
                       boundary as one single point π.
                            The limit is now studied, in which a ’small portion’ of the surface area sets the Cauchy
                       data on the outsider spacelike surface.
                            The ’small portion of the surface area’ considered here therefore consists of one
                       single point π (whose area will not nevertheless decrease): the outsider spacelike region
                       considered here is therefore one accessed after the pertinent Cauchy data.
                            This way, the closure of M (rather that the closure of M̃) of D + (S) is therefore taken
                       into account.
                            Accordingly, the new theorem holds as follows:

                       Theorem 4. Points of the geodesics p of the closure of M of D + (S), which are located ’beyond’
                       the conjugate point, are unpredictable.
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                                7 of 14



                       Proof of Theorem 4. There should be one unique ’would-be’ geodesics line passing
                       through one chosen point from the future, through the point π on the fictitious singularity
                       and through the would-be point ’beyond the conjugate point’ on the analytic continuation
                       of the would-be geodesics; differently, the would-be point σ would be accessed starting
                       from the future in the would-be geodesics.

                             Intermediate study of a ’thin’ manifold M is thus analogous to that of a thin-
                       sandwich conjecture.
                             The would-be point σ not being accessible implies that there no accessed geodesics
                       lines passing through it.
                             The points beyond which the analytical continuation is in Einstein–Hilbert GR are
                       therefore defined: they consist of the bases of the tangent cylinder.
                             The tagent cylinder here is newly proven to consist of exactly all the geodesics that
                       access (attain at) the point from the future and on the point π on the fictitious singular-
                       ity. Therefore,

                       Theorem 5. The tangent cylinder is geodesically complete.

                            Therefore,

                       Theorem 6. An unperturbed Schwarzschild solution of the EFE’s establishes a Schwarzschild blackhole.

                       Proof of Theorem 6. All the cylinders tangent to the Schwarzschild blackhole are geodesi-
                       cally complete.

                       7. About Ricci Solitons on Riemannian Submanifolds
                             From [4], the results of [8,9] are recalled, according to which it is possible to write the
                       equations of the Ricci tensor of a submanifold in a Riemannian manifold. It admits a Ricci
                       soliton with potential vector field as the tangential part of the concurrent vector field.
                             As a result, Ricci solitons on Euclidean surfaces are classified with a potential vector
                       field arising from the position vector field of a Euclidean hypersurface.
                             The hypersurface in the Euclidean space is made to be a gradient Ricci soliton, for
                       which the necessary and sufficient conditions are spelled in [11].
                             The conditions for a submanifold of a Ricci soliton to be a Ricci soliton are studied
                       in [10].
                             The use of concurrent vector fields for Ricci solitons is discussed in [18].
                             The methodologies connected to the concurrent vector fields will subsequently be
                       specified to Schwarszchild solitons and to Generalized-Schwarszchild solitons from [19].
                       Ibidem, the uniqueness of the Schwarzschild solitons is studied. The Ricci flow is reconciled
                       with the EFE’s. The scaling functions are used to investigate the rotational properties of the
                       geometrical objects and are utilized to spell out the determinant of the metric tensor.

                       8. About Pseudo-Riemannian Hypersurfaces Admitting Ricci Soliton
                            From the work of Bektas’ Demirci [4], the classification theorems of Ricci solitons on
                       pseudo-Riemannian hypersurfaces are used on on a 4-dimensional Minkowski space E1 4 .
                            The new methodology developed here is summarized as follows.
                            The potential vector field is taken as the tangent component of the position vector of
                       the pseudo-Riemannian hypersurfaces.
                            The theorems needed for the constructions are now enunciated.

                       Theorem 7. The potential vector fields are unique.
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                               8 of 14



                       Proof of Theorem 7. The 4-velocity is unique.

                       Theorem 8. The tangent component of the position vector of the pseudo-Riemannian hypersurfaces
                       is unique.

                       Proof of Theorem 8. The connection is unique, and the concurrent vector field is unique.

                       Theorem 9. For a pseudo-Riemannian hypersurface, the necessary and sufficient condition given
                       for it to admit a Ricci soliton is the uniqueness of the connections.

                       Proof of Theorem 9. The Christoffel symbols that define the connection are unique.

                             From [9], the position vector field is selected as a concurrent vector field.
                             Accordingly, the 4-velocity corresponds to the time-derivative of the 4-position.

                       9. Schwarzschild Solitons: New Theorems
                             The new result is here presented, according to which

                       Theorem 10. The position concurrent vector field of a Schwarzschild soliton is uniquely determined
                       after the 4-velocity.

                       Proof of Theorem 10. The 4-velocity vector uniquely determines a manifold, which is
                       tangent to the Killing horizon.

                             Accordingly,

                       Theorem 11. From the hypotheses of [11], a unique hypersurface exists, which uniquely defines a
                       Schwarzschild manifold.

                             The gradient Ricci solitons can therefore be newly analyzed.
                             In particular, the following Theorem holds.

                       Theorem 12. A non-compact gradient Ricci soliton exists and is unique, whose curvature operator
                       is pseudo-Riemannian (i.e., it is defined after a pseudo-Riemannian metric).

                             Furthermore, from the hypotheses ibidem, the following Theorem is given as follows:

                       Theorem 13. A Schwarzschild manifold is a gradient Ricci soliton.

                       10. Spelling of the New Construction of the Solitons
                             The vector field ξ µ is here chosen.
                             The Lie derivative of the metric tensor with respect to ξ µ defines the manifolds:

                                                            £ξ gµν + Rµν = λgµν .                                    (14)

                             Equation (14) is studied here to produce the following solitons.
                       (1)   The solitons with vanishing derivative of the metric tensor with respect to the vector
                             field ξ µ is as follows:
                                                                  £ξ gµν ≡ 0                                   (15)

                             i.e., according to which the Steady Ricci Schwarzschild solitons are described as

                                                                       λ = 0.                                        (16)
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                             9 of 14



                       (2)   The steady Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons such that

                                                                       Rµν ≡ 0                                     (17)

                             (when they are found).

                       (3)   The soliton
                                                                       Rµν ̸= 0,                                   (18)

                             with
                                                                    Rµν = λgµν .                                   (19)

                            Now, the solitons (1)–(3) are constructed by imposing the most general sets of condi-
                       tions on the weight functions f of
                                                                 ∇ f = ξ,                                    (20)

                       i.e., which is spelled as
                                                                  ∇µ f = ξ µ ,                                     (21)

                       with ξ µ being a Killing vector field. The Killing vector field ξ µ is proven to correspond
                       with the 4-velocity field. The velocity v is a concurrent vector field; it is unique because the
                       Ricci scalar can be constructed from the unique Christoffel symbols. More specifically, the
                       uniqueness of the (radial part of the) 4-velocity is taken as an example in [16].
                            The conditions from Equation (21) that are compatible with the Schwarzschild mani-
                       folds are

                                                                  ∇t f = ξ t ,                                   (22a)
                                                                  ∇r f = ξ r ,                                   (22b)
                                                                  ∇ϕ f = 0,                                      (22c)
                                                                  ∇θ f = 0.                                      (22d)

                       10.1. Equations of the Spacelike Submanifold of Pseudo-Spherical Cylinders
                            The spacelike submanifold of pseudo-spherical cylinders is described after integration
                       of Equation (22) as

                                                         ∇0 f α = ξ 0 = Γ0α
                                                                         σ
                                                                            fσ ,                                 (23a)
                                                         ∇r f α = ξ r = ∂r f α + Γrα
                                                                                  σ
                                                                                     fσ .                        (23b)

                             Furthermore, one of them has
                                                                   ∂θ f θ = 0                                      (24)

                       and
                                                                   ∂θ f ϕ = 0.                                     (25)

                       10.2. The Killing Vector Fields for Schwarzschild Spacetime
                             From Equation (2), the Killing vector field is taken as kµ such that

                                                                  k µ k µ = −1                                     (26)

                       where the killing vector field comes from the r component of the 4-velocity; it is defined
                       here as
                                                               k µ ≡ ∇ µ vr                                   (27)
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                               10 of 14



                            There exists a further degrees of freedom associated with the manifolds, which is
                       defined after the further vector field as

                                                                  K µ ≡ ∇ µ v0                                        (28)

                       i.e., from the t-component of the 4-velocity.
                              The corresponding unique rotational vectors are therefore studied.

                       11. Schwarzschild Solitons: Further New Theorems
                            The results from [10] are here newly studied in the case of a pseudo-Riemannian manifold.

                       Theorem 14. The condition of a gradient Ricci soliton

                                                                   Vµ = ∇ f µ                                         (29)

                       are studied here based on the framework of [2]; in particular, a 1-dimensional submanifold tangent
                       to the event horizon exists, and it is written after the potential of a tangent vector field Φµ

                                                                            ∂Φµ
                                                                 V µ = vν        .                                    (30)
                                                                            ∂x ν

                            Accordingly, the following theorem holds.

                       Theorem 15. For a Schwarzschild soliton, the event horizon corresponds to the Killing horizon.

                            According to the paradigm presented here, the following Theorem holds.

                       Theorem 16. The immersion of a shrinking Ricci soliton (Mm , g, λ) into a space form with
                       constant mean curvature is for Schwarzschild manifolds of a shrinking Ricci soliton (Mn , g, λ),
                       from which the construction of a Gaussian solitons always holds.

                            Furthermore,

                       Corollary 1. The transformations that leave the soliton (Mm , g, λ) invariant [20] are the transfor-
                       mations which leave the metric g invariant in General Relativity.

                       Corollary 2. The transformations that leave the metric of (Mm , g, λ) invariant are the diffeomor-
                       phisms, i.e. (Mm , g, λ) is always upgraded to (Mn , g, λ).

                       Corollary 3. The diffeomorphism that leave the metric of a Schwarzschild soliton invariant are the
                       coordinate transformations.

                       Remark 1. The diffeomorphisms discussed for a Schwarzschild solitons are the General-Relativistic
                       transformations.

                            This present analysis allows one to work out that

                       Corollary 4. The scalings of the metric are always trivial for Schwarzschild solitons.

                            The local scalings of the metric are studied in [19], from which the consiitons from [2]
                       are now discussed in the Table in Appendix C. Indeed, from [2], the scalings of the metric
                       are written as g̃µν as g̃µν = Ω2 gµν , where, ibidem, the function Ω is described to be a
                       smooth function equal to zero with a non-vanishing gradient on the boundaries of M. The
                       geometrical objects are summarized from [19] and in Appendix C.
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                             11 of 14



                       12. Generalized-Schwarzschild Solitons: Further New Theorems
                            The following relevant results are provided as far as the Generalized-Schwarzschild
                       solitons are concerned.
                            The definition of concurrent vector fields and the consequent analysis of the 4-velocity
                       vector allows one to establish the characterization of the fictitious singularity.

                       Theorem 17. For a Generalized-Schwarzschild soliton, the event horizon corresponds to the
                       Killing horizon.

                            Moreover, the local conformal invariance is analyzed.

                       Theorem 18. The scaling of the metric are always trivial for Generalized-Schwarzschild solutions,
                       which admit R = 0 even with Rµν ̸= 0.

                       13. Outlook
                            From [10], the relation between the intrinsic invariants and the extrinsic invariants are
                       studied for a Riemannian submanifold to admit a Ricci soliton.
                            It is recalled that Ricci solitons are solitons for which

                                                           Rµν + [H( f )]µν = ρgµν                                  (31)

                       with Hµν being the Hessian matrix operator.
                           The implication from [6] can now be newly analyzed.

                       Theorem 19. Schwarzschild solitons are asymptotic solitons.

                            The concurrent vector fields of immersed manifolds are discussed in [21]; ibidem, the
                       concurrent vector field of immersed manifolds and with constant length are investigated.
                       The case of Riemannian immersions is specified in [22] for the present purposes.
                            The presented findings are apt to be inscribed within the research lines outlined in [23].
                       The phenomenological evidences are searched for in [24] from [25].
                            Applications of the present findings are proposed in [26]. Ibidem, the presence of
                       spacetime singularities is studied from ibidem; this presence is ascribed to the incom-
                       pleteness of timelike geodesics or to that of null geodesics. The existence of the (global)
                       Cauchy hypersurface is not requested for these discussions. The modern Astrophysical
                       implementation is proposed in the work of Israel [27].
                            The possible role of J − (J + ) is discussed in the work of Tipler [28].
                            In the work of Senovilla et al. [29], the perspective studies about particular non-
                       compact Cauchy hypersurfaces are envisaged.
                            The possible definitions of blackhole are compared in the work of Curiel [27].
                            The modern perspectives are discussed in [30].
                            The no-hair theorem can start being discussed in [13]; in the case presented here, the
                       Penrose Theorem is applied to the framework developed here.

                       Theorem 20. The inconsistency is removed from [2]. Indeed, the trapped surface does not exist in
                       (M, g) as T (or the union of all the trapped hypersurfaces) is now newly outlined to be one with
                       null support.

                       14. Concluding Remarks and Perspective Studies
                             It is now possible to comment on the results about the cylindricity properties of Ricci
                       solitons discussed in [31]. It is straightforward to conclude that the Definition from ibidem
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                               12 of 14



                       does not apply to Schwarzschild solitons; for this reason, Theorem 1.2 from ibidem does
                       not hold for Schwarzschild solitons, and therefore, the coincidence of Bryant Schwarszchild
                       solitons with Brendle Schwarzschild solitons is not only an improvement in the under-
                       standing of the rotational symmetries of the Schwarzschild spacetime, but it also opens the
                       investigation of the properties of the tangent cones from [32].
                             In contrast, the spacetime structure of the Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons allow for
                       the consideration of implementing curvature estimates from the Definition from ibidem in
                       order to develop the needed new concepts for a comparison with Theorem 1.2 from ibidem.
                             The properties of gravitational solitons arising from the topological aspects of the
                       spacetime were introduced to be investigated in [33]; ibidem, the results are also suggested
                       to be extended the case of asymptotically non-flat spacetimes: the instance can be therefore
                       taken for Schwarzschild spacetimes, which are asymptotically flat according to the Birkhoff
                       Theorem, and to Generalized-Schwarszchild solitons, which are asymptotically non-flat
                       according to [19].
                             From [33], the no-hair theorem is recalled to let the found solitons be defined after the
                       three quantities M, Q, and J; the Bekenstein–Hawking [34,35] formula is invoked.
                             We recall here that the Bekenstein–Hawking entropy formula holds for Schwarzschild
                       solitons, as with the study of the scaling functions from [19]; diversely, the entropy formula
                       will be studied for the Generalized-Schwarzschild cases in future work according to the area
                       formula in General Relativity, with respect to the rotational invariance of the Generalized-
                       Schwarzschild spacetimes.

                       Funding: This research received no external funding.

                       Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.

                       Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.

                       Data Availability Statement: The original contributions presented in this study are included in the
                       article. Further inquiries can be directed to the corresponding author.

                       Conflicts of Interest: The author declares no conflicts of interest.

                       Appendix A. Christoffel Symbols of the Schwarzschild Metric
                            For the Schwarzschild metric, the following non-vanishing Christoffel symbols
                       are reported:

                                                                    1      rS
                                                             Γ00r =                ,                                (A1a)
                                                                    2 r (r − r S )
                                                              r     1 rS
                                                             Γ00  =       (r − r S ),                              (A1b)
                                                                    2 r3
                                                                      1r       1
                                                             Γrrr = − S              ,                              (A1c)
                                                                      2 r r − rS
                                                             Γrθθ = rS − r,                                        (A1d)
                                                             Γrϕϕ = −(r − rS )(sinθ )2 ,                            (A1e)
                                                                    1
                                                             Γrθ
                                                              θ
                                                                 =    ,                                             (A1f)
                                                                    r
                                                             Γθϕϕ = −(sinθ )(cosθ ),                               (A1g)
                                                                   1
                                                             Γrϕ =
                                                              ϕ
                                                                     ,                                             (A1h)
                                                                   r
                                                                   cosθ
                                                             Γθϕ =
                                                              ϕ
                                                                        :                                           (A1i)
                                                                   sinθ
                       they need to be specified for their cylindrical symmetry, i.e., to be evaluated at r = const ≡ R.
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                                           13 of 14



                                  Appendix B. Christoffel Symbols of the Generalized-Schwarzschild Metric
                                       For a generalized-Schwarzschild metric of line element specified after

                                                                                     rS
                                                                         g00 = 1 −      + Ψ (r )                                  (A2)
                                                                                      r
                                  the Christoffel symbols are calculated as

                                                                      1 rS + r2 dΨ
                                                               Γ00r =               dr
                                                                                         ,                                      (A3a)
                                                                      2 r (r − rs + rΨ)
                                                                r     1 1                         dΨ
                                                               Γ00  =       (r − rS + rΨ)(rS + r2    ),                         (A3b)
                                                                      2 r3                        dr
                                                                        1 1 rS + r2 dΨ
                                                               Γrrr = −                dr
                                                                                            ,                                   (A3c)
                                                                        2 r r (r − rs + rΨ)
                                                               Γrθθ = −rΨ − r + rS ,                                            (A3d)
                                                               Γrϕϕ = −(rΨ + r − rS )(sinθ )2 ,                                 (A3e)
                                                                      1
                                                               Γrθ
                                                                 θ
                                                                   = ,                                                           (A3f)
                                                                      r
                                                               Γθϕϕ = −(sinθ )(cosθ ),                                          (A3g)
                                                                     1
                                                               Γrϕ =
                                                                 ϕ
                                                                       ,                                                        (A3h)
                                                                     r
                                                                     cosθ
                                                               Γθϕ =
                                                                ϕ
                                                                          :                                                      (A3i)
                                                                     sinθ
                                  they need to be specified for the cylindrical symmetry, i.e., to be evaluated at r = const ≡ R.

                                  Appendix C. Tools for the Rescaling of the Metric: The Weight Functions
                                  of the Schwarzschild Spacetime
                                       In the case of local conformal rescaling of the metric, one recalls from [19] that the
                                  local rescalings of the metric can be rewritten as

                                                                           G̃µν = e−2 f (r) gµν                                   (A4)

                                  for which the weight functions of the Schwarzschild solitons spacetimes are defined (from
                                  the determinant of the metric) and must obey the constraint on the vanishing of the Ricci
                                  scalar as
                                                              "                               2                 #
                                                           6              d2 f                df               df
                                              R = 0 = 2 −2 f r ( r − r S ) 2 − r ( r − r S )      + (2r − rS )          (A5)
                                                        r e               dr                  dr               dr

                                  from which it is studied that the (interrogated-about) non-vanishing gradients of the
                                  scale function µ = e−2 f do not contribute to the Ricci tensor, to the Ricci scalar, and
                                  to the Riemann tensor. The definition of weight function therefore follows for the
                                  Schwarzschild solitons.

References
1.    Israel, W. Event Horizons in Static Vacuum Space-Times. Phys. Rev. 1967, 164, 1776–1779. [CrossRef]
2.    Hawking, S.W. Black holes in general relativity. Commun. Math. Phys. 1972, 25, 152–166. [CrossRef]
3.    Bardeen, J.M.; Carter, B.; Hawking, S.W. The four laws of black hole mechanics. Commun. Math. Phys. 1973, 31, 161–170. [CrossRef]
4.    Demirci, B.B. Ricci solitons on pseudo-Riemannian hypersurfaces of 4-dimensional Minkowski space. J. Geom. Phys. 2022, 174,
      104451. [CrossRef]
5.    Landau, L.D.; Lifshitz, E.M. Course of Theoretical Physics. In Fluid Mechanics, 2nd ed.; Pergamon Press: Oxford, UK, 2013;
      Volume 6.
Axioms 2025, 14, 896                                                                                                             14 of 14



6.    Chan, P.-Y.; Ma, Z.; Zhang, Y. Ancient Ricci flows with asymptotic solitons. arXiv 2021, arXiv:2106.06904. [CrossRef]
7.    Barros, A.; Gomes, J.N.; Ribeiro, E. Immersion of almost Ricci solitons into a Riemannian manifold. Mat. Contemp. 2011, 40,
      91–102. [CrossRef]
8.    Chen, B.Y.; Deshmukh, S. Classification of Ricci solitons on Euclidean hypersurfaces. Int. J. Math. 2014, 25, 1450104. [CrossRef]
9.    Chen, B.Y.; Deshmukh, S. Ricci solitons and concurrent vector fields. Balk. J. Geom. Its Appl. 2015, 20, 14–25.
10.   Meric, S.E.; Kilic, E. On submanifolds of Riemannian manifolds admitting a Ricci soliton. Mem. Sci. Sect. Rom. Acad. 2019, 42,
      59–66.
11.   Al-Sodais, H.; Alodan, H.; Deshmukh, S. Hypersurfaces of Euclidean space as gradient Ricci solitons. Analele Stiintifice Ale Univ.
      Al. Cuza Din Iasi Mat. 2014. [CrossRef]
12.   Lecian, O.M. The new Generalized Schwarzschild-spacetimes trivial Ricci solitons and the new smooth metric space. J. Appl.
      Math. 2025, 3, 2901. [CrossRef]
13.   Penrose, R. Gravitational collapse and space-time singularities. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1965, 14, 57–59. [CrossRef]
14.   Penrose, R. Structure of space-time. In Battelle Rencontres; de Witt, C.M., Wheeler, J.A., Eds.; Benjamin Incorporated: New York,
      NY, USA, 1968.
15.   Schoutem, J.A.; Yano, K. On invariant subspace in the almost complex X2n. Indag. Math. 1955, 17, 261–269. [CrossRef]
16.   Brickell, F.; Yano, K. Concurret vector fields and Minkowski structures. Kodai Math. Sem. Rep. 1974, 26, 22–28. [CrossRef]
17.   Christodoulou, D.; Francaviglia, M. Remarks about the thin sandwich conjecture. Rep. Math. Phys. 1977, 11, 377–382. [CrossRef]
18.   Chen, B.-Y.; Deshmukh, S. Ricci solitons and concurrent vector fields. arXiv 2014. [CrossRef]
19.   Lecian, O.M. About Uniqueness of Steady Ricci Schwarzschild Solitons. Axioms 2025, 14, 770. [CrossRef]
20.   Perelman, G. The entropy formula for the Ricci flow and its geometric applications. arXiv 2002, arXiv:math/0211159. [CrossRef]
21.   Yano, K.; Chen, B. On the concurrent vector fields of immersed manifolds. Kodai Math. Sem. Rep. 1971, 23, 343–350. [CrossRef]
22.   Chen, B.-Y. Submanifolds of a euclidean hypersphere. Proc. Am. Math. Soc. 1971, 27, 627–628. [CrossRef]
23.   Landsman, K. Penrose’s 1965 singularity theorem: From geodesic incompleteness to cosmic censorship. Gen. Relativ. Gravit. 2022,
      54, 115. [CrossRef]
24.   Urso, I.; Vincent, F.H.; Wielgus, M.; Paumard, T.; Perrin, G. Gravity versus astrophysics in black hole images and photon rings:
      equatorial emissions and spherically symmetric spacetimes. arXiv 2025, arXiv:2506.13482. [CrossRef]
25.   Penrose, R. Gravitational Collapse: The Role of General Relativity. Nuovo Cimento Riv. Ser. 1969, 1, 252.
26.   Hawking, S.W.; Penrose, J. The Singularities of Gravitational Collapse and Cosmology. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. Ser. A Math. Phys. Sci.
      1970, 314, 529–548.
27.   Curiel, E. The many definitions of a black hole. Nat. Astron. 2019, 3, 27–34. [CrossRef]
28.   Tipler, F.J.; Clarke, C.J.S.; Ellis, G.F.R. Singularities and horizons—A review article. In General Relativity and Gravitation: One
      Hundred Years After the Birth of Albert Einstein; Held, A., Ed.; Plenum Press: New York, NY, USA, 1980; Volume 2, pp. 97–206.
29.   Senovilla, J.M.M.; Garfinkle, D. The 1965 Penrose singularity theorem. Class. Quantum Gravity 2015, 32, 124008. [CrossRef]
30.   Landsman, K. Singularities, black holes, and cosmic censorship: A tribute to Roger Penrose. Found. Phys. 2021, 51, 42. [CrossRef]
31.   Brendle, S. Rotational symmetry of Ricci solitons in higher dimensions. J. Differ. Geom. 2014, 97, 191–214. [CrossRef]
32.   Lecian, O.M. Riemannian (Trivial) Immersion(s) of Schwarzschild Solitons and of Generalized-Schwarzschild Solitons; Researchgagte:
      Berlin, Germany, 2025.
33.   Bouzikas, A. Gravitational Solitons from Topology. Master’s Thesis, Utrecht University, Utrechtm, The Netherlands, 2016.
      Available online: https://studenttheses.uu.nl/handle/20.500.12932/21719 (accessed on 20 October 2025).
34.   Bekenstein, J.D. Black holes and entropy. Phys. Rev. 1973, 7, 2333. [CrossRef]
35.   Hawking, S.W. Particle Creation by Black Holes. Commun. Math. Phys. 1975, 43, 199. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
