New Geodesics 2-planes (noncompact) solitons
connected at infinity
Orchidea Maria Lecian
Sapienza University of Rome,
Rome, Italy.
orchideamaria.lecian@uniroma1.it


Abstract
New 2-planes solitons are written from Einsteinian manifolds; the corresponding
Perelman diffeomorphisms are written as convex isometries.
The new constructions are found after the upgrades of the Bernstein Theorems
in General Relativity, from whose manifolds the weighted meterized solitons are
written- the tools of the Gauss map in General Relativity are utilised when
the Ricci flow is made to undergo the Einstein FIeld Equations. The new
corresponding Ricci solitons are found to be from geodesic surfaces. The Cauchy
completeness is newly studied. The new corresponding embedding Theorems are
written.


Key-words:
noncompact solitons; Cauchy surfaces.


1    Introduction
In the work of Alı́as et al. [1], the Bernstein Theorem is reviewed, the Calabi-
Bernstein problem of maximal surfaces is scrutinized; a duality between the
corresponding differential equations is found ibidem.
More in detail, in the work of Alı́as et al., the Bernstein Theorem [2] on min-
imal surfaces is described as descending from the maximal-surface theorems of
Calabi-Bernstein [3], [4] with Minkowski signature- the affinity of the vectors of
C 2 solution of the surface equation is studied. Furthermore, ibidem, the 1-forms
equivalent to the π/2 rotations are investigated; the corresponding 1-form is
proven to be closed.
In the work of Albujer et al. [4], the maximal surfaces are written as immersed
in a Lorentzian manifold M of metric tensor corresponding to the line element

                             ds2 ≡ −dt2 + < , >M                              (1)

being the manifold M of the type M ≡ R1 × M 2 with M 2 being M 2 a Rieman-
nian surface with non-negative Gaussian curvature.




                                        1
    In the work of Alı́as et al. [5], the uniqueness is proven of complete spacelike
hypersurfaces in Generalized Firdman-Robertson-Walker (FRW) spacetimes of
constant mean curvature. Ibidem, the total umbilicity is proven in the com-
pact case; the cases of ’slices’ are also envisaged. The constant-mean-curvature
spacelike hypersurfaces are ibidem found to be ’slices’ in the compact case. The
Key-concepts from [5] are in the present work refined, and the new proofs are
provided with also in the pseudo-Riemannian non-compact case. In the present
paper, the applications of Schwarzschild solitons and those of Generalized-
Schwarzschild solitons are proven.
In the work of Souam et al. [9], connected Riemann surfaces and simply-
connected ones are proven not to admit totally-umbilical surfaces; in the present
work, the researches from Hamilton [16] and from Perelman [17], [18] are up-
graded to spacetime-dimensional manifolds, which are now newly proven to
admit surfaces which are totally umbilical.
In the work of Gibbons [10], the notions of ’energy-independent Finslerian met-
rics of the Randers type’ are recalled: the study of the Gaussian curvature of
equatorial sections of Schwarzschild blackhole is newly addressed.
The Positive-Mass Theorem is newly scrutinized in [13]: the blackholes with
’outermost apparent horizons’ are studied within this framework.
In [11], the exitence of Cauchy hypersufaces of pseudo-Riemannian non-compact
solitons is proven; the geodesics completeness is proven as well. The results are
applied to Ricci solitons; the particular cases of Schwarzschild solitons and of
Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons are approached.
In [12], the complete spacelike hypersurfaces of constant-mean curvature in the
Generalized Fridman-Robertson-Walker spacetimes are explored.
In the present paper, new developments from the Bernstein Theorems are worked
out, the definitions of minimal surfaces and of maximal ones in the Minkowski
space are recalled, and they are here newly applied in General-Relativity (GR)
Theory to solitons from weighted meterized manifolds for the solitons which are
from a metric tensor which obeys the Einstein Field Equations (EFE’s). The
notions of totally geodesy and of geodesical completeness are newly worked out
in the investigated new cases as follows.
The tools form the Gauss map in GR are here newly extended to study solitons;
the characterization of lightlike surfaces and that of null surfaces are revised.
New theorems are written for meterized weighted solitons, whose Ricci flow
obeys the EFE’s; the results are proven also in the non-compact cases.
The role of the Gaussian curvature if those of spanning vectors are newly delin-
eated for solitons; the geodesics defined after these procedures are characterized,
and the role of the sectional curvature is evidentiated.
New meterization theorems are written; in the case of Riemannian immersions,
the implications are studied within the framework of their topological aspects;
the methodology is applied to non-compact Cauchy surfaces: the study of the
embeddings is performed.
As one result, the completeness of maximal weighted surfaces is studied; the con-
vexity of the isometries of weighted manifolds is proven:the Rotational Ansatz
is applied to the metric tensor in this case.


                                         2
The new paradigm is applied to Schwarzschild solitons and to Generalized-
Schwarzschild solitons; in htese cases, the mean curvature is calculated anew as
vanishing: spacelike surfaces of these solitons are newly investigated- the new
immersions are newly rpoven to be unique and isometric by construction nad
after the properties of the inclusion maps.
New analysis is performed when hte tools from the Gauss map are utilized.
As a further procedure, the EFE’s are therefore studied; the orientation of the
unit timelike vector fields are written; the results are framed within the for-
malisms of the Gauss map: the definitions of lightcones is worked out- the
tangent space is newly explored.
The properties of the second fundamental form are newly analyzed thus in this
context, the tangent vector fields being newly written, i.e., such that the new
results from the study f the corresponding sectional curvature are gathered.
Moreover, the new role of the Gauss map in the determination of the Cauchy
surfaces is written after geodesics completeness of embedded manifolds. The
Weingarten formalism is also newly applied to the newly-obtained structures;
the connected-ness of the future infinity boundary is newly proven after the
definitions of total hyperbolicity.
The new results are controlled also in the surfaces of the fictitious singularities
whose surfaces are therefore proven not to be modified.
The obtained improvements in the understaning of the here-newly-defined 2-
planes solitons are to be framed within the descriptions of the positive-mass
theorems and within the analysis of the implications of the umbilicity condi-
tions.
When RIcci solitons are considered, the embedding are found to be strictly con-
vex and isometric, i.e. such that the found manifolds are proven to be minimal.
The corresponding convex isometries are therefore written as the Perelmann
diffeomorphism; the pertinent solitons are from geodesics 2-planes connected at
infinity, which are here weighted and meterized. The corresponding embedding
methods are newly written. Massive-particle surfaces in spherically-symmetric
spacetimes are to be studied with the aim of the corresponding new solitons to
be written.
The new characterization of the Schwarzschild solitons and of the Generalized-
Schwarzschild ones is to be looked for after the presence of totally- umbilic
surfaces in homogeneous 3-multidimensional manifolds.
The paper is organized as follows.
In Section 2, the introductory material ins presented; the Bernstein Theorem on
minimal surfaces is recalled; maximal surfaces from the Minkowski space and
are revised, spacelike graphs are recapitulated.
In Section 3, the tools obtained from the Gauss map in GR are reviewed; the
Gauss map is proven to characterize the lightlike hypersurfaces and the null
ones in GR.
In Section 4, new theorems are presented for the metrized non-compact solitons.
In Section 5, the Calabi-Bernstein problems are revised.
In Section 6, the new Theorems about the Calabi-Bernstein problems in higher
spacetime dimensions are written.


                                        3
In Section 11, new results frm the study of the second fundamental form are
presented- the Theorem T34 contains the spelling of the Gauss curvature after
the future-oriented Gauss map.
In Section 12, the Gauss map is proven to detemrnine the mean curvature of
the Cauchy surfaces.
In Section 13, the outlooks are presented.


2    Introductory material
Form [1], some notation is here recalled.
The Bernstein Theorem on minimal surfaces is written as
Theorem T1:
The solutions of
                                                      !
                                            Du
                  M inimal[u] = Div p                   =0                      (2)
                                          1+ | Du | 2
describe a minimal surface. 
Maximal surfaces from the Minkowski space enjoy the following property
Definition D1:
A maximal surface of the Minkowski spaces is defined as a spacelike surface with
vanishing men curvature H .
Maximal surfaces are defined after the following
Theorem T2:
A maximal surface is one obeying
                                                       !
                                              Du
                  M aximal[u] = Div p                    =0                  (3)
                                           1− | Du | 2
which is soled only as affine connections. 
Moreover, the following Theorem is now reported from [1]
Corollary C1:
The graph is a spacelike if
                                  | Du | 2 < 1.                                 (4)

Theorem T3:
Be Ω ∈ R2 a simply-connected domain; ∃ non-affine C 2 solution of the minimal
surface on Ω which is described as
                                                Dw
                     M aximal[w] = Div p                   =0                   (5)
                                             1− | Dw | 2

It is our aim to develop the guidelines from [4] in order to generalize the manifold
as one of metric tensor whose line element is now written as
                              ds2 ≡ dt2 + < , >M .                              (6)


                                         4
For these purposes, the following Theorem is reported from [4]
Theorem T4:
Any complete maximal surface in R1 × M 2 if totally geodesics. 
The follwing is now given
Corollary C2:
If M is nonflat, then M is a slice M × { t0 } , t0 ∈ R. 
Moreover,
Theorem T5:
The surface M as a slice M × { t0 } , t0 ∈ R is complete.


3     Review of the tools from the Gauss map in
      GR
The tools which are related with the Gauss map in GR and recalled in this
Sections, which will be used afterwards.Definition D2:
A Gauss map of an Einsteinian manifold is one such that there exist the point
q in a surface (M, g) which can be either spacelike or null; and ∃! the future-
oriented timelike (resp., null) vector perpendicular to the surface Σ such that
Σ is mapped on its future hyperboloid, or on the future lightcone in the tangent
space.
Therefore,
Remark R1:
The Gauss map characterizes the lightlike hypersurfaces and the null ones in GR.



4     New studies
The new Theorems are here proven for metrized weighted solitons whose Ricci
flow undergoes the EFE’s, and are proven to hold also in the non-compact case.

4.1    New results about the Gaussian curvature in GR
A geodesics plane in GR is one with non-vanishing Gaussian curvature in GR:
even though it contains geodesics of vanishing; indeed,
Theorem T6:
The Gaussian curvature K of a 2-dimensional tangent plane is equals the sec-
tional curvature of the plane (which depends on the Riemann tensor).
Proof of Theorem T6:
The spanning vectors can be found. 
Moreover,
Theorem T7:
The Gaussian curvature K of a 2-dimensional geodesics plane is equals the sec-
tional curvature of the plane (which depends on the Riemann tensor). 
The sectional curvatures are studied as follows Theorem T8:


                                       5
Given a (geodesics) 2-dimensional plane ̟ in GR, its sectional curvature S (̟)
equals the saturation of the Riemann tensor with two orthonormal vectors uµ
and un u which span the plane as

                            S (̟) ≡ Rµνρσ uµ uν v ρ v σ ;                       (7)

the 4-dimensional indices are here kept because the Gaussian curvature of the
two-dimensional plane depends on the 4-dimensional GR manifold, and not on
the type of embedding (which discriminates about the the submersions and about
the immersions). 
It is the aim of the present paper to outline the spanning vectors, i.e., also after
the studied from SCRIVI.
In higher spacetime dimensions, the geodesics planes are individuated as from
in the above, and after the passing of two intersecting geodesics on one chosen
point of the plane ̟: the spanning vectors are those which are individuated
after the study of the velocities- on its turn the study of the velocities is in
accord with the study of the equal-time isoclines surfaces.
Accordingly,
Theorem T9:
Given the plane ̟ with its Gaussian curvature K (̟), the Gaussian curvature
of the surface identified after the geodesics passing from a point on the plane ̟
is therefore defined. 

As the sectional curvature S is defined in the tangent space of the 2-planes,
the Ricci curvature is calculated after the trace of the sectional curvature.

4.2    New metrization theorems
According to the properties of the sectional curvatures, the metrization method-
ologoies are now newly written.
Theorem T10:
The surface M is complete. 
Furthermore,
Theorem T11:
The manifold M is complete. 


4.3    The study of the manifolds M and M
The following theorem is reported from [4]:
Theorem:
Any complete maximal surface with respect to the metric which is induced from
the Riemannian product R × M 2 is totally geodesics.  In the following, the
attention is devoted on the cases when the surface M 2 is unique, and when its
Gaussian curvature K (M 2 ) is nonnegative.
Proof T10:


                                         6
The immersion is topologically closed. 
Corollary C3:
From Proof T10, the immersion is closed also in the non-compact case. 
Remark R2:
From Proof T10, in particular, the submersion of Cauchy surfaces is topologi-
cally closed.
This way.


4.4    Analysis of M
The non-meterized surface M is now newly characterized as a manifold as in
the following procedures.
Theorem T11:
The submersion from Corollary C3 is also an immersion due to the action of
th pullback of the metric; moreover, the immersion is injective: the immersion
is also a closed embedding. 
Proof T11:
After Theorem T8. 
The following Remarks are in order.
Remark R3:
Given the 2-dimensional plane π, its Gaussian curvature π is an intrinsic prop-
erty which depends only on the distances of π and not on the way it is embedded
isometrically.



5     About the Calabi-Bernstein problem
The Calabi-Bernstein problem is now studied for the entire maximal graphs in
R1 × M 2 with nonnegative Gaussian curvature.
More in detail. it is the new aim to study the implication of the following new
Theorem T12:
The manifold M 2 contains maximal graphs which are complete.
Proof T12:
These maximal graphs are Cauchy surfaces. 
In the work of Albujer et al. [4], examples are provided with of KM ≥ 0 after
the duality obtained ibidem between minimal graphs and maximal ones. It is
one of the present aims to study noncompact metrized weigthed solitons with
nonnegative mean curvature for the cases of the Schwarzschild geometry and of
the Generalized-Schwarzschild ones to be applied.




                                      7
6     About the Calabi-Bernstein problem in higher
      spacetime dimensions
I remark that
Remark R4:
Given the 2-dimensional plane Π, the Gaussian curvature of the surfaces found
after the geodesics passing from a point of the plane Π is unique.
It is generalized as
Theorem T13:
Given the 2-dimensional plane Π, the Gaussian curvature of the manifold M n
found after the geodesics passing from a point of the plane Π is unique after the
embeddings here considered.
Proof T13
The embedding is strictly convex and isometric. Therefore, the surface found is
minimal. 
Accordingly, Theorem T13 is applied also in General Relativity Theory in the
cases of metrized weighted Ricci solitons as Theorem T14:
Given a 2-space-dimensional plane ς, the embedding of ς, gab , f is strictly convex
isometric.
Proof T14:
The functions f are restricted from the higher-dimensional case after the conformally-
flat rescaling of the metric of the metrized soliton is unique after the weight f is
put in the expression of the metric tensor, and therefore in the invariant-volume
element, the mean curvature H (ς, g, f coinciding with its Ricci scalar. 
Accordingly, the sectional curvature S of a plane ς, S (ς) is defined on the
tangent space; therefore
Theorem T15:
The Ricci curvature R(ς) is the trace of the sectional curvature on the tangent
plane T ς. 



7     New results from the Weingarten fromula star-
      ing from the Gauss map
7.1    Study of the Schwarzschild solitons and of the Generalized-
       Schwarzschild ones
The study is now focused on the metrized weigthed (noncompact) Schwarzschild
solitons (M, g, f ) in 4-spacetime-dimensional manifolds.
We recall that
Theorem T15:
The mean curvature H (M, g, f ) is vanishing.
Proof T15:
After the minimal-surface equation .


                                       8
We recall that the minimal surface F (x, y) is a local area minimizer, i.e. it is a
graph when it beys the equations specified after the variables t, ρ as

                (iFT2 )Fρρ − 2FT Fρ FT ρ + (1 + Fρ2 )FT T = 0,                 (8)

i.e., we recall that FT ≡ ft ga,b , where the plane Σ is a equal-time hypersurface
as ones selected in [19], and whose existence is there studied.
As a result,
Theorem T16:
The minimal surface F from F (x, y) is also a local-area maximizer.
Proof T16:
The mean curvature H () is vanishing, where F has been reduced. 



8    About the GR solitons
In the present Section, solitons from Einsteinian manfilds are studied, whose
Ricci flow is reconicled with the EFE’s, after which the Rotational Ansatz can
be applied.
I analyze that
Theorem T17:
The properties of F of area extremizing are also global.
Proof T17
According to the Birkhoff Theorem. 
Indeed,
Theorem T18:
The induced metric from the ambient Lorentzian metric is a Riemannian metric
on the spacelike surface.
Proof T18:
It locally maximizes the areas among all the nearby surfaces with the same bound-
ary. 
In fact, the Proof of Theorem T18 follows immediately after the results from [5]
and from [6].
Maximal surfaces with constant mean curvature are spacelike surfaces with con-
stant mean curvature, as studied in [7].



9    Investigations of the smooth immersions
It is now my aim to research the smooth immersions

                           F : Ξ2 → R1 × M 2 ≡ M∋                              (9)

being Ξ2 a the selected surface, where the existence of the metrized manifold
M3 is ensured after Theorem T5 .
The tools are now newly adapted and refined, which are now explored in the


                                        9
case of connected-ness at infinity (which is the topology needed to study the soli-
tons of the Schwarzschild geometries and those of the Generalized-Schwarzschild
ones).
Be Υ2 a surface connected at infinity. Thus,
Theorem T19:
The immersed surface is a spacelike surface.
Proof T19:
F can induce a Riemannian metric on Υ; indeed, the inclusion map a a iso-
metric immersion, and it is unique. 
Therefore,
Theorem T20:
The immersed surface is a properly immersed minimal surface with an infinite
symmetry group and with the area constraints.
Proof T20
Because the embedding is proper and it is rigid. The area constraints are de-
scending locally. 
More in detail,
Theorem Tv21:
The embedded surfaces are therefore planes.
Proof Tv21:
The constraints from Theorem T20 are those from the locally-conformal flatness
requested after the rotational ansatz. 


9.1    More about the Gauss map
The new methodology is now ready to be applied to the investigations about
the Gauss map.
The unitary timelike vector field will be defied and proven to be unique.
The implications are found as far the non-meterized starting manifold M is
concerned.
Theorem T21:
From M1 , ∂t is a unitary timelike vector field.
Theorem T22:
∂t is also globally defined on M3 .
Accordingly,
Theorem T23:
There exists and is unique N a unitary timelike normal field, globally defined in
Υ.
The properties of the non-meterized manifold M are now analyzed.
Theorem T24:
N i is also globally defined on M .
Moreover, the following new Theorem is found about the meterized manifold
Theorem T25:
N a is also globally defined on M3 , and it becomes N i ..
Accordingly, it is possible to newly study the normal vector in solitons from GR


                                        10
manifolds.
The following new definition of N µ in GR is therefore spelled out as
Theorem T26:
N µ as
                                N µ ≡ (N 0 , ~0).                           (10)


Proof T26:
N µ has the same orientation as ∂t. 
The orientation ∂t defines the future-oriented GUass map, after which the
future-infinity boundaries will be worked out anew.
Theorem T27:
N µ is the future-oriented Gauss map worked out after Σ.
Theorem T28:
N µ coincides with the future-oriented Gauss map worked out after Υ.
The study of the future-oriented Gauss ma of Υ introduces the proof of the
geodesics completeness of the future hyperboloid as in the following.
From the definition of the Gauss map in GR, one has that
Theorem T29:
Σ is the future hyperboloid. It is one which is geodesically complete and does
not contain trapped surfaces.
Proof T29:
it is the future hyperboloid calculated from the equal-time isoclines surfaces
(which are geodesically- complete planes). 
Theorem T30:
σ is the future-oriented lightcone in the tangent space.



9.2    Study of the properties of the tipping lightcone in the
       tangent space
The Penrose-like tipping lightcone in the tangent space is now given anew the
novel characterizations.
Theorem T31:
The planes are the plain that contain the equal-time surfaces from the rotational
ansatz; they are complete.



10     From the Weingarten formalism
Be
                                  : Υ2 → M3 .                               (11)
Moreover, be X and Y tangent vector fields ∈ T Υ; and be

                                Z : T Υ → T Υ.                              (12)


                                       11
Therefore,
Theorem T32:
In GR spacetimes, Z is the second fundamental form of Υ with respect to its
unitary timelike normal vector field N µ , i.e. wrt its future-oriented Gauss map.

Therefore,
Theorem T33:
∀X, Y tangent vector fields in T Υ, one has that

                        ∇M3 Y ≡ ∇X Y − < ZX, Y > N                           (13)

is rewritten as
                                ∇M2 Y ≡ ∇M3 Y.                               (14)

Proof T33:
Because
                        ZX − ∇mathcalM 2 N ≡ −∇M3 N                          (15)
with
                               ∇M3 N ≡ ∇M2 N.                                (16)



11     More new results from the second fundamen-
       tal form
Further new results are now proven after the upgrades of the properties of the
second fundamental form.
Theorem T34:
Be D such that
                                 TΣ → TΣ                                  (17)
the second fundamental form of Σ with respect to its N (being N the future-
oriented Gauss map); the Gaussian curvature K (Σ) is written after the Gauss
equation
                 K (Σ) = K¯M 3 − det[D] ≡ K¯M 2 − det[D]                (18)

Theorem T34 is applied now also metrized manifolds which are also weigthed,
the weights being ones descending from the rotational ansatz:
Theorem T35:
Be D such that
                                T Σ− → T Σ                             (19)
the second fundamental form of Σ with respect to its N (being N the future-
oriented Gauss map); the Gaussian curvature K (Σ) is written after the Gauss
equation
                 K (Σ) = K¯M3 − det[D] ≡ K¯M 2 − det[D]                 (20)


                                       12

Proof T35:
K¯ ≡ S being the latter the sectional curvature in M∈ × R (of the plane π
tangent to Σ).  The properties of the sectional curvature after the rotational
ansatz were scrutinized in [14].



12     New results about the Cauchy surfaces
It is the aim of the present Section to study how the Gauss maps determines
the mean curvature H of Cauchy surfaces, after the determination that the
3-dimensional spacetime manifolds M3 are geodesically complete.
We recall that the mean curvature is defined after
                                        1
                                 H ≡      tr[S ]                            (21)
                                        2
for M2 .
Definition D3:
The Weingarten map is written as
                                      ~ · ~n.
                                 S ≡ −∇                                     (22)

 The unit normal vectors of Cauchy surfaces is modified accross the Cauchy
surfaces, as the geodesics completness allows one to chose the velocity four-
vector components for the Frenet trihedron formulation as follows.
In the cases here studied, ~nM2 the unit normal of M2 is written as

                                 ~nM2 = (1, 0).                             (23)

Moreover, ~nM3 the unit normal of M2 is spelled out as

                                ~nM2 = (1, 0, 0).                           (24)

    From [4], proposition 3.2 is now recalled as
Proposition P1:
Be M2 a Riemannian surface; if F : Σ2 → Σ2 is compact and spacelike in
M2 × R1 and if the mean curvature does not change sign, then it is a slice
M × { to } , to ∈ R.
The only maximal surfaces in M2 × R1 are the slices. 
From this study, the following new Theorem is now given for solitons connected
at infinity
Theorem T36:
Be F noncompact, and be F connected at infinity; then ∃ noncompact maximal
hyperplanes connected at infinity which are issued after the Clairault submersion
of the metrized weigthed soliton (M3 , g, f ). 
The Schwarzshild version and the Generalized-Schwarzschild versions are writ-
ten as


                                       13
Theorem T37:
Be F noncompact, and be F connected at infinity; then ∃ noncompact maximal
hyperplanes connected at infinity which are issued after the Clairault submersion
of the metrized weigthed soliton (M4 , g, f ). 
The properties of the Clairault subemrsions allow one to study the connected
ness of the future infinity boundary.
Theorem:
For Schwarzschild solitons and for Generalized-Schwarzschild ones, the constant
mean curvature is admitted.
Proof:
After Theorem T37. 
The future infinity boundary is connected when H ≡ 0, after whose study one
finds about whether the hypersurfaces can be maximal or minimal.
The role of the hypersurfaces in GR is evidentiated as follows.
Theorem T38:
For Schwarzschild solitons and for Generalized-Schwarzschild ones, the local vol-
ume expansion is vanishing. 
From Theorem T38, the vanishing of the local volume expansion is framed within
the Rotational ansatz after metrization, after which the Birkhoff Theorem can
be proven to hold.
Indeed, Theorem T39:
Schwarzschild solitons and Generalized-Schwarzschild ones are totally geodesics.

After Theorem T39, the geodesics structure of the Schwarzschild solitons is
proven.
In fact, on Schwarzschild manifolds, one has that
Theorem:
For Schwarzschild solitons and for Generalized-Schwarzschild ones, ∃ E + the
future infinity. 
Theorem T40:
For Schwarzschild solitons and for Generalized-Schwarzschild ones, the future
infinity E + is reached after the totally hyperbolic surfaces. 
After Theorem T40, one is allowed to study both the future infinity and the
geodesics structure of the Generalized-Schwarzschild manifolds.
Accordingly,
Theorem T41:
The H = 0 instability is described after a perturbation which makes the point
be shifted according to the time direction individuated after ∂t . 
The study of the instabilities is addressed in the further work.
For the purposes of the present analysis, the definition of the Future infinity
boundary and that of the Cauchy surfaces allows one to exclude the presence of
trapped surfaces.
The complete characterization of the 2-planes solitons are Ricci in now scruti-
nized.




                                       14
13     Outlook
The outreach of the present work is the study of the massive-particle surfaces,
i.e. the timelike hypersurfaces after the trajectories described with the aim to
extend the notion of photon-sphere for the case of nonvanishing-mass particles
after [8], as in [22] and in [23].
In [23], a Riemannian metric is taken from [24]; as a result, the arbitrariness of
the total energy is stressed for the difficulty of applying the umbilicity conditions
when the energy conditions have to be specified fro the Nichikawa theorems to
be applied.
In [8], the questions have to be asked, about the tasks to be proven for charged
massive particles. As new accessory results from the present work, the questions
are answered from [8],as the vanishing of the local volume expansion is proven,
i.e., int he case of the Schwarzschild blackhole and in those of the Generalized-
Schwarzschild ones after the Rotational ansatz is applied to the corresponding
solitons which are proven to obey the Birkhoff Theorem.
Another possible modern application of the findings is for solitons with pinched
Ricci curvature, i.e., such as those from [20] and from [21]- these possibilities
will be analyzed in further work.
Even though the rotational ansatz is applied also on the fictitious-singularity
surface, the fictitious-singularity surfaces is now proven in the present framework
not to be modified.


References
 [1] L.J. Alı́as, B. Palmer, A duality result between the minimal surface equa-
     tion and the maximal surface equation, An. Acad. Bras. Ciênc. 73(2), 161-
     164 (2001).

 [2] Bernstein S. 1915-1917. Sur un téorème de géometrie et ses applications aux
     équations dérivées partielles du type elliptique, Comm Soc Math Kharkov
     15, 38-45.

 [3] Calabi E., Examples of Bernstein problems for some nonlinear equations,
     Proc Symp Pure Math 15: 223-230 (1970).

 [4] A.L. Albujer, L.J. Alias, Calabi-Bernstein results for maximal surfaces in
     Lorentzian product spaces, Journal of Geometry and Physics 59(5), 620-631
     (2009).
 [5] L.J. Alı́as, A. Romero, M. Sánchez Uniqueness of complete spacelike hy-
     persurfaces of constant mean curvature in generalized Robertson-Walker
     spacetimes, Gen. Relativity Gravitation, 27, 71-84 (1995).

 [6] L.V. McNertey, One-parameter families of surfaces with constant curvature
     in Lorentz 3-space, Ph.D. Thesis, Brown University, USA (1980).



                                         15
 [7] S.S. Chern, Simple proofs of two theorems in minimal surfaces, Enseign.
     Math. II. Sér., 15, 53-61 (1969).

 [8] B. Bermúdez-Cárdenas, O.L. Andino, Massive particle surfaces, partial um-
     bilicity and circular orbits, Phys. Rev. D 111, 064001 (2025).

 [9] R. Souam, E. Toubiana, Totally umbilic surfaces in homogeneous 3-
     manifolds, Comment. Math. Helv. 84, 673-704 (2009).

[10] G.W. Gibbons, The Jacobi metric for timelike geodesics in static space-
     times, Class. Quantum Grav. 33, 025004 (2016).

[11] O.M. Lecian, Geodesics Completeness and Cauchy Hypersurfaces of Ricci
     Solitons on Pseudo-Riemannian Hypersurfaces at the Fictitious Singularity:
     Schwarzschild-Soliton Geometries and Generalized-Schwarzschild-Soliton
     Ones, Axioms 14(12), 896 (2025).

[12] L.J. Alı́as, A. Romero, M. Sánchez, Uniqueness of complete spacelike hy-
     persurfaces of constant mean curvature in generalized Robertson-Walker
     spacetimes, Gen. Rel. Grav. 27, 71-84 (1995).

[13] E.T. Bryden, M.A. Khuri, C. Sormani, Stability of the Spacetime Posi-
     tive Mass Theorem in Spherical Symmetry, Journal of Geometric Analysis
     31(4), 4191-4239 (2021).

[14] O.M. Lecian, The tipping lightcones and the cross sections of Schwarzschild
     Solitons and of Generalized-Schwarzschild Solitons from Riemannian (Triv-
     ial) Immersion(s), Researchgate, Berlin (2025).

[15] P. Baird, A. El Soufi, A. Fardoun and R. Regbaoui, Progress in Nonlinear
     Differential Equations and Their Applications, Vol. 59, Birkhaeuser, 2004.

[16] R.S.Hamilton, Non-singular solutions of the Ricci flow on threemanifolds,
     Commun. Anal. Geom. 7 (1999), 695-729.

[17] G. Perelman, Ricci flow with surgery on three-manifolds, arxiv:0303109

[18] G. Perelman, Finite extinction time for solutions to the Ricci flow on certain
     threemanifolds, arxiv:0307245.

[19] O.M. Lecian, The Yamabe flow after the rotational ansatz of noncom-
     pact (pseudo-Riemannian) solitons: the Schwarzschild solitons and the
     Generalized- Schwarzschild ones, Researchgate, Berlin (2025).

[20] L. Cheng, On locally conformally flat manifolds with positive pinched Ricci
     curvature , e-print arxiv math:2303.06648.

[21] L. Cheng, Yamabe flow and locally conformally flat manifolds
     with positive pinched Ricci curvature, Calc. Var. 64, 102 (2025).
     https://doi.org/10.1007/s00526-025-02971-1


                                        16
[22] K. Kobialko, I. Bogush, D. Gal’tsov, The geometry of massive particle
     surfaces, e-print arXiv:2208.02690 (2022).

[23] Bermúdez-Cárdenas, B., Andino, O.L., Massive particle surfaces and black
     hole shadows from intrinsic curvature, Eur. Phys. J. C 85, 1266 (2025).

[24] M.A. Argan’araz, O.L. Andino, A Riemannian geometric approach for
     timelike and null spacetime geodesics, Gen. Relativ. Gravit. 56(10), 121
     (2024).




                                      17
