Study of pseudo-Riemannian solitons
on complete manifolds
after umbilicity conditions
Orchidea Maria Lecian
Sapienza University of Rome,
Rome, Italy.
orchideamaria.lecian@uniroma1.it


Key-words:
Pseudo-Riemannian solitons; non-compact solitons; Cauchy-complete manifolds.


Abstract
3-space-dimensional Ricci solitons which are projected onto surfaces are here
considered.
The chosen construction is newly proven to be extended to 4-dimensional non-
compact pseudo-Riemannian solitons, for which the projection map of vector
the vector bundle is proven newly to be unique; more in detail, it is newly
proven to be Cauchy complete.
The differential map is newly proven to be non-vanishing, unique and confor-
mal.
The properties of the dilation of these solitons are newly investigated. As the
result, the dilation is newly proven to be unique and the trivial one int his
setting; more in detail, the notions of projection map of vector bundles and
that of projection map of tangent bundles are newly proven to overlap in the
present case: the total space is newly proven to be Cauchy complete because it
is geodesically complete.
Examples of General Relativity Theory are newly reconducted; in the presented
approach, the implementation of the strong energy condition is not followed: dif-
ferently, the procedure is taken to implement the aspects of a Gaussian manifold
in General Relativity. The Gaussian manifold is needed to assign the qualities
of a complete maximal timelike hypersurface in whose bein is in R2 as totally
geodesics and geodesically complete. Therefore, the proof is provided with that
the surfaces the solitons are projected onto are Cauchy-complete manifolds.


1    Introduction
In the work of Baird et al. [1], the 3-space-dimensional Ricci solitons are investi-
gated with the aim to study those maps which project these solitons to surfaces
after semi-conformal mapping.
The aim of [1] is the study of the constraints on the parameters which define the


                                         1
mapping for the construction of solitons after the data on the surfaces. As a re-
sult, the 3-space-dimensional solitons are found to be projected to 2-dimensional
manifolds.
In the work of Meena et al. [2], Clairaut conformal submersions between Rie-
mannian manifolds are recapitulated.
The Clairaut conformal submersions are ibidem schematized after constant di-
lation along the fibres.
Geodesics on the total manifolds of conformal submersions are studied ibidem,
after which the Ricci scalar and the Ricci tensor are calculated of the vertical
distributions and of the total manifolds.
The fibres of General-Relativity (GR) Theory spacetimes are here found as de-
fined after a local semiconformal submersions, which is reconducted to a Clairaut
submersion after the fibres being described as totally geodesics and the fibration
is proven to be unique; moreover, the fibration is proven to be that admitted
after a Riemannian immersion in GR as from manifolds which constitute a
metrized soliton equipped with weight function and which undergo the Ricci
flow. In this respect, one notices that the total umbilicity condition then is
reconducted.
From [2], the fibers are then found to be totally umbilical, from which the com-
parison with [3] holds, the mean curvature being found after the gradient of the
suitable function.
More in particular, in [3], the methodology is set for to define the causal-
structure-preserving 2-space-dimensional manifolds from a static totally-umbilic
4spacetime-dimensional spacetime.
From [2], in the case of Clairaut conformal submersions, the changes of the met-
ric tensors are reported to be conformal and the fibers are described as totally
geodesics.
It is the present aim to newly apply the Clairaut conformal submersion after
having discussed it is unique for GR spacetimes form which the manifolds under-
goes a Ricci flow and is equipped with (the suitable) weights when the fibration
in GR is found to be unique, i.e., after ADM decomposition.
As a further result, the vector fields are determined after the 4-velocity 4-vector.
The behaviour of the metric is examined within the rotational ansatz. The re-
quested generalized curvature is here newly calculated after the new theorems
from the Myers’ Theorems, which is here newly applied to GR.
The conformal foliation induced on the fibres of the corresponding smooth sub-
mersive semiconformal map are newly described in Theorem T27.
Fixed points of the Ricci flow are evaluated from [4].
In the work of Abbassi et al. [5], the completeness of the total spaces descending
after conformal submersions is investigated. Particular Riemannian metrics are
considered ibidem on vector bundles; for this purpose, constraints are put on
the dilation functions: the Riemannian case is researched. Within the present
work, it is my aim to implement the paradigm after evaluating the submersions
as undergoing the Ricci flow.
In the work of Blaga et al. [6], selected topic in Ricci solitons are addressed.
The conditions which allow one to reduce generic solitons to trivial Ricci soli-


                                         2
tons are studied. Ibidem, some of the properties of the potential vector fields
which are related to totally-umbilical solitons are examined; differently, in the
present paper, the vector field determined as a Killing field. The Killing vector
field is here proven to be one worked out of the 4-velocity 4-vector and to be
unique, which lead to the wanted properties due to total umbilicity.
In addition, the potential vector field is here unique.
In the work of Blaga et al. [6], Riemannian solitons of constant scalar curvature
are studied; unaccordingly, in the present study, the solitons considered do not
need to be ones of constant Ricci curvature but merely of non-negative Ricci
scalar. Indeed, the results will be applied also to Generalized-Schwarzschild
solitons in [7] and to early-cosmological scenarios in [8].
in [6], the compact topology and the connected-ness are invoked an all the mech-
anisms there proposed; unassociatedly, in the present analyses, all the Theorems
are proven in a more general way and independently of these topological prop-
erties, and are indeed suitable to be applied to the non-compact cases [7] and
[8].
It is one of the present aims to prove that when the solutions of the Einstein
Field Equations (EFE’s) are issued, then these solutions are conducted to soli-
tons on weighted manifolds. These manifolds are therefore here newly metrized.
As a tool, the horizontal distribution of the differential semiconformal mapping
is proven to be Cauchy complete, after which the proof follows of Theorem T23,
where the horizontal distribution is newly found to be applied after the here-
newly-studied submersions.
The Riemannian submersions here studied are proven to be immersions from
the result of the action of the pullback of the metric tensor.

More in detail, the new proof is provided with of Theorem T25, according
to which these horizontal distributions are found to be the result of the new
conformal submersions; these submersions are newly defined from the general-
ization of Clairaut submersions to pseudo-Riemannian manifolds. Indeed, in the
present work, starting from the nomenclature set in [2], the conformal Clairaut
submersions are written in for weighted metrized complete Einstein solitons un-
dergoing the Ricci flow after the EFE, from which the suitable manifolds and
the appropriate structures in GR are newly defined.
The corresponding dilations is found the exist and to be unique.
The proof is here provided with that the corresponding space is total, as it is
Cauchy complete as it is geodesically complete.
Moreover, the proof is illustrated, that the vector bundle is a total space; its
total space admits a projection on Riemannian manifold.
The case of pseudo-Riemannian manifolds follows directly is the present con-
text, as the solutions of the EFE’s are issued.
The corresponding solitons on weighted manifolds are built. More in detail,
from Theorem T27, the rescalings of the wrights are newly analyzed.
The result here presented are built without the strong energy conditions, i.e.,
also in vacuum.



                                       3
Within the present analysis, the newly-found weighted solitons are proven to
be projected onto a 3-spacetime, from which the 2-space surfaces from [1] are
newly proven to disclose new spacetime structures.
The follwoing notation is here written utilised for apices and for pedices: lower-
case Latin letters from the beginning of the alphabet designate to 2-space dimen-
sional indices, lower-case Latin letters from the middle of the alphabet refer to
3-space dimensional indices, lower-case Greek letters are referred to 4-spacetime-
dimensional indices, upper-case Latin letters indicate generic indices (i.e. the
numbers of dimensions is not specified).
The paper is organized as follows.
In Section 2, the new methodologies are outlined after the exposition of the new
introductory results.
In Section 3, the new results about the conformal mappings are written.
In Section 4, the further studies about Ricci solitons being projected onto 2-
manifolds are presented.
In Section 5, the new properties of the Clairaut submersions are scrutinized.
In Section 6, the newly-found results are newly conducted to the 4-spacetime-
dimensional description.
In Section 7, the unique conformal foliation is focused about.
In Section 8, the new topics are inscribed within the analysis of metrized spaces.


2      Outline of the new methodologies
The Ricci flow
                                ∂gµν
                                     = −2Rµν (gρσ )                           (1)
                                  ∂t
is looked for its fixed points after

                         −2Rµν [gij ] = £X gµν + 2c1 gµν                      (2)

when
                                   X µ ≡ ∇µ F                                 (3)
for the function F to be defined after the 4-velocity.
Definition D1:
A semiconformal map ψ is a Lipshitz map such that

                      ψ : (P m , gij ) → (Qn , hij ), ψ ∈ C 1 ,               (4)

and ψ is dense.
Accordingly,
Theorem T1:
There exists the differential map dψx :P m , gij → Qn , hij and tx P → Tψx Q
Theorem T2:
either ψ is the identically-zero map, or ψ is conformal and it is surjective on
the complement of the Ker[dΨx ]. 
Definition D2:


                                         4
The space Ker[dΨ] is named the horizontal distribution.
From [9], the fibers of a smooth submersive semiconformal map are recalled to
determine a conformal foliation.
The map dΨx is nonvanishing and is conformal and surjective when it is re-
stricted to the complement of the Kernel of it.
The complement of the Kernel of it is the horizontal space Hx .
The ma is this way acting as a scaled isometry.
As a result, while a semiconformal map sends circles into ellipses, on the hori-
zontal space it sends circles into circles.
Definition D3:
∃Λ(x) continuous function: ∀xa , y a vectors in Hx , the metric tensor is described
as
                        hij (dΨxi )(dΨx y j ) = Λ2 (x)gij xi y j .              (5)



    There exists the number Λ(x) named the dilation.


3     Results
Theorem T3:
The properties of the mapping is to be conformal and orthogonal to the fibers.
Definition D4:
When (x) = 1 the conformal submersion becomes a Riemannian submersion.
Differently stated,
Definition D5:
The horizontally homeotetic submersion becomes

                                   H(∇µ ) ≡ 0                                  (6)

with constant along any horizontal distribution.
In the work of Abbassi et al. [5] the problem of the completeness of the chosen
manifolds as classes of Riemannian metrics on vector bundles is addressed. The
completeness is proven ibidem of horizontally conformal submersions and the
bound on the dilation is found as follows.
Theorem T4:
The projection map of tangent bundles with spatial Riemannian metrics is a
horizontally conformal submersion. 
Theorem T5:
The projection map of vector bundles endowed with spatially-symmetric metrics
is such that the fiber metric on the bundle is worked and put after the bein
projection of the Riemannian metric.  Moreover, I add that
Theorem T6:
There exists and is unique the corresponding Riemannian metric




                                        5
4     Further studies about the Ricci solitons
In the work of Baird et al. [1], 3-space-dimensional Ricci solitons which are
projected to surfaces are built.
It is the present aim to study 3-dimensional Einsteinian solitons which are pro-
jected onto the surface, which is here studied to be unique up to (truncated)
homeomorphisms, which are isomorphic.
It is here proven that
Theorem T7:
The total space of a vector bundle whose projection is a horizontal conformal
submersion defines the tangent bundle.
Proof P7:
The manifold P m from which the mapping is issued is Riemannian, and the
manifold Qn to which it is mapped can also be pseudo-Riemannian. 
Remark R1:
The qualities of N n which define it as pseudo-Riemannian are not issued after
the mapping.
Furthermore,
Theorem T8:
The total space is Cauchy complete.
Proof P8:
It is geodesically complete. 
Remark R2:
In the present case, the geodesics completeness implies the Cauchy completeness
as the EFE’s select the geodesics uniquely.
Moreover, Theorem T9:
The Ricci flow on the manifolds which are solutions of the EFE’s preserve the
Cauchy completeness. 
Theorem T10:
The corresponding weighted solitons are unique up to locally-conformal rescal-
ings.
Proof P10:
After the rotational ansatz. 



5     About Clairaut submersions on 4-dimensional
      manifolds
5.1    Semiconformal submersions
Be the two 3-space dimensional manifolds (P r , gij ) and (Qs ), hij . Be F the
mapping
                        F : (P r , gij ) → (Qs , hij ).                     (7)
Definition D6:
The orthogonal complement with respect to g is named the vertical distribution.


                                       6
The point p ∈ P m is now considered: the vectors tangent to the fiber from the
vertical distribution are indicated as Wp .
The projection onto the horizontal distribution H is now investigated.
The map dF induces the coordinate transformation
                                                      ′
                                (P r , gij ) → (Qs , gij )                   (8)
where X i , Y i ∈ Ker[dF ]; therefore the dlilation is written as
                           ′
                          gij (dF X i )(dF Y j ) = gij X i Y j .             (9)
Then
                           ′
                          gij (dF X i )(dF Y j ) = 2 gij X i Y j            (10)
with C(Ker[df ]) is the codomain of the transformation, and it corresponds to
the target coordinate chart.
The case ≡ 1 is here selected; the corresponding Riemannian submersion is
now studied from [10], [11], [12], [13].
Be χ the angle between the velocity vector of a geodesics and a meridian. Be
R the radius between the point and the axis of the revolution surface; I point
out that χ is the angle Θ = −χ + φ/2 from [3] between the chosen manifold and
the coordinate axis.
After [14] and after [3], the following Theorem is written
Theorem T11:
The Riemannian submersion between soliton spaces is selected as those with
χ = π/2. 
This way, after [2], one has that
Theorem T12:
The submersion is Riemannian when
                                  R ∼ χ |Riem = c1                          (11)
being c1 the dimensional constant. 


5.2    The 4-spacetime-dimensional paradigm
Be (P m , gµν ) the 4-spacetime dimensional manifold, and be P r , gij the corre-
sponding 3-space dimensional manifold; the metric of Qs is now denoted as gij ,
as it is proven in the following.
After [2], and after [10],
Definition D7:
the O’Neill tensors Aµ ν and T µ ν are defined as ∀X1µ , X2µ ∈ Γ(T P ) being
Γ(T P ) the Levi-Civita Connection of P m .
I here stress that
                                Γµνρ (xiµ ) ≡ Γµνρ (xµ )                     (12)
as the angle χ has been attributed the value which conserves the GR spacetime
causal structure with its Minkowski lightcones on the tangent bundle. There-
fore,


                                            7
Theorem T13:
P m is now the manifold from a metrized weighted GR soliton. 


5.3    About Clairaut submersions
The work after [2] is now briefly recalled for the sake or it to be extended to
manifolds from metrized solitons equipped with weight functions.
Be
                            F : (P m , g) → (Qn , h)                       (13)
a conformal submersion between the Riemannian manifolds (P m , g) and (Qn , h).
For q ∈ Q, be F −1 { q} the mapping such that the fibre of F is mapped over
q ∈ Q; therefore
Theorem T14:
The following new decomposition holds
                     µ   ν
                    X ν X1 = H∇hx1 W X2 + W ∇Hx1 HX2 ,                     (14a)
                      µ   ν
                    X1 ν X2 = H∇W X1 x2 + W γW x1 HX2                      (14b)

being x1 , x2 ∈ H the 4-spacetime-dimensional vector from the metrized solitons
of P m ; this way γW X1 corresponds to ∇W X1 as it will be specified.
f orallx1 , x2 ∈ Γµνρ (T P ), the tensors µν and µ nu are antisymmetric.

The projections on the horizontal space is therefore named H and that on the
vertical spaces are then called W . It is now my aim to prove that T is unique.
This way,
Theorem T15:
The following decomposition holds

                                 W x1 ≡ Tx1 ,                              (15a)
                                 THX1 ≡ TX1                                (15b)

being W x1 the vertical projection and THX1 the horizontal projection. 
Therefore
Theorem T16:
The projections are decomposed as

                                   Tx1 ≡ x1                                 (16)

after having projected X1 on T P m . 
The achieve decompositions hold in GR; furthermore,
Theorem T17:
The surjective projection X1 on T P m is also bijective. 




                                       8
6    4-dimensional extension
It is the further aim to extend the study to 4-dimensional pseudo-Riemannian
noncompact solitons. The Clairaut conformal submersions between Riemannian
manifolds are provided with a geometrical interpretation in the work of Meena
et al. [2].
It is immediately verified that ∀xµ , y µ ∈ Γ(Ker[dΨ]) and ∀ui , v j ∈ Γ(Ker[dF ])
one has that
Theorem T18
The following decomposition holds

                       (∇u v)i = Tu µj v j + W ∇u v i ,                     (17a)
                              i            i   j           i
                       (∇x u) = AX j u + W ∇Z u ,                           (17b)
                              i                    i            i
                       (∇x Y ) = (AZ Y ) + (H(∇Z Y )) ,                     (17c)

being Z i the restriction of Z µ ∈ P m of the suitable vector resulting from the
submersions, and it is straightforward verified that

                           (H(∇Z Y ))i ≡ (H∇Z )(Z i )                        (18)

after which i is selected from µ int eh first addend of the right-hand-side of Eq.
(17a).
Proof P18:
The angle χ has already been selected as preserving the causal structure. 
Remark R3:
The causal structure of the 2-space-dimensional manifold Qs is such that a
geodesics is never abandoned, i.e. not in the vacuum case nor in the matter
case.
The further manifold Q is now issued after [A] as in the following
Theorem T19:
The conformal mapping F is now proven to be such that

                                  F −1 { q} → Q ∈ Q                          (19)

being Q corresponding to whole Q. 
Moreover
Theorem T20:
The fibres of the submersions are totally umbilical.
Proof P20:
After [15]. 
After [15], the following is also newly proven
Theorem T21:
The following decomposition is unique

                             Tu i j v j ≡ gµρ uµ uρ H jσ ,                  (20a)
                                       j
                            Tu i j X       = −gij H ik X k uj               (20b)


                                               9
The subspace from the projection operator T has now become the tangent T of
the spacetime. 
The mapping dF is now a section of the bundle.
The following transformation is now investigated Hom(T P, F −1 T Q) → M be-
ing M the restriction of P which coincides with the 3-dimensional manifold M .
Then
Theorem T21:
F −1 (T )P ≡ F −1 (T P ) is the pullback bundle. 
Furthermore,
Theorem T22:
The pullback of the metric is the pullback bundle; it admits the fibration which
is also the unique fibre at p ∈ P as
                             (F −1 T P ) |p ≡ T |F (p) P                        (21)
. 
It is immediately verified that
Theorem T23:
The bundle Hom(T P, F ′ T Q) admits a Levi-Civita connection γ after which the
differential operator ∇ is uniquely defined. .
The relevance of Theorem T23 is therefore now outlined as
Theorem T24:
The connections γ are calculated after the Christoffel symbols which coincide
with the connections ∇(P ) after which ∇F has become the pullback connection.


   The following new definition is now provided with
Definition D8:
In GR, on has that
                             ∇F ≡ ∇(p) ≡ γ ≡ Γ                                  (22)
are the Christoffel symbols.
Accordingly, the transformations-invariance rule of the Christoffel connections
is recovered
                                Γ(x′ ) ≡ Γ(x);                             (23)
in particular,                                   ′
                                 ΓµνρV ρ ≡ Γµνρ V ρ                             (24)
        µ
being V the 4-velocity 4-vector, which is selected as calculated from the con-
figuration of the reference frame of the observed solidal with the photon.
Remark R4:
is here stressed that the photon follows the geodesics in GR.
This way,
Theorem T25:
the requested Killing vector field is calculated accordingly and is therefore unique.

The importance of Theorem T25 is now focused about.



                                         10
7    The unique conformal foliation
In the work [9], cofmormal foliations are newly introduced. In particular, the
conformal foliations are defined ibidem from the notion of Haefiger structure,
i.e., from the new following
Definition D9:
A Haelfliger structure of codimansion q on a topological space S is defined after
a CΓ(q) cocycle cosisting of an open cover { Aa } , where A is used in the above,
and a system of continuous map Fαβ whose bein rpojection is written as
                                Fab = Fac F cb .                             (25)
 It is our aim to prove that there exist systems of continuous maps, as, i.e.,
Theorem T26:
The specification Faa : Ua → CΓ(q) define the continuous maps being U the
generic cover associated to the case of Γ(q) .
Definition D10:
When the Faa ’s are submersions, the foliation is conformal. Accordingly, the
product spaces can be considered for application.
The generic submersions are studied in the work of Sikander et al. [16].
The following is proven straightforward:
Corollary C1:
A Riemannian foliation is recovered when the values of Faa are the germs of
isometries. 
Corollary C2:
The Christoffel symbols are now the coefficients of the generic connection Γ(q)
of the Riemannian submersion. 
The following generalization holds
Theorem T27:
The conformal foliation is Riemannian when the locally conformally-flat rescal-
ings after the Rotational ansatz are isometries.
Proof P27:
After Proof T25; furthermore, the Killing vectors are conserved alog the trans-
verse bundles B ≡ T (M )/T (E) being E the differentiable foliation of codimension
q on M.
The comparison with Riemannian foliation is therefore taken from [17].
The constants of motion are constant along the leaves E and are to be applied
to Eq. (27) after [18].
In the work of Zawadzi [15], conformal submersions endowed with total-umbilical
fibres are investigated; as a result, ibidem the total umbilical fibres are found
to exist when the fibres are connected.
From definition 2.1 from ibidem, the following Theorem is written
Theorem T28:
for π conformal mapping, ∃π∗ conformal mapping restricted to the horizontal
distribution such that the fibres of the conformal Riemannian submersion are
totally umbilical. 
Furthermore,


                                       11
Lemma L1:
Given π conformal submersion with totally-umbilical fibres, the inverse π −1 is
defined on the totally-umbilical manifold; therefore, ∃ smooth horizontal vector
field H on M.



8    Discussion
According tho Theorem T23 and to Theorem T25,
Theorem T29:
The fibre is unique and is totally geodesics. Box
and
Theorem T30:
The two-manifold M2 described after the radius R is totally geodesics. 
As a result,
Theorem T30:
The manifold M2 is the manifold on which the soliton is projected. 
More in detail, the surfaces M 2 are the 2-dimensional spacetimes M ≡ M2
which are given examples in [7] in the case of diagonal 4-spacetime-dimensional
metric tensor.
The locally-conformal rescaling becomes that of the locally-conformally-flat
spacetimes which are worked out after the Rotational ansatz. They are also
the transformations which are requested as those introduced after a local con-
formal submersion between Riemannian manifolds as one induced after locally-
conformally-flat rescalings (of the metric of a metrized Einstein solitons which
can now be equipped with the weights functions)
    and after the Riemannian immersion.
The first fundamental form F1 coincides therefore with the second fundamental
form F2 . The total-umbilicity condition from [19] is therefore reconducted.
In [7], the rescaled metric individuate therefore the same equal-time surface af-
ter which the prescriptions on the derivatives are worked out.
From lemma 2 from [2], the following new Lemma is worked out
Lemma L2:
dF (HΓ(X) Y ) ≡ ∇Q                                     i j
                    F X FX Y + XFX Y + Y Fx X − gij X Y grad H(x̃) being x̃ the
normalized vector from the normalized flow with grad H(x̃) ≡ 0. .

   After the work of Blaga et al. [6], the new findings are now stated.
After the study of proposition 2 from [6], the following Proposition is now writ-
ten after the total-geodesics properties as
Corollary C3:
There exist and is unique ξ A parallel vector field in GR along the integral curves
ς.
Proof P3:
As
                                    ∇ς ξ A ≡ 0,                                (26)


                                        12
and
                                  ∇S V B ≥ 0                               (27)
being V A the n-spacetime-dimensional velocity four-vector, the inequality sign
from Eq. (27) being due to the Pseudo-Riemannian description. 
Proposition Pr1:
Be (Mm , g, f ) a metrized weighted hyperbolic gradient Ricci soliton. The Ricci
scalar is constant on the integral curves ς and

                                gAB ξ A ξ B > 0.                           (28)


Proof Pr1:
As the second Lie derivative of the metric tensor is vanishing as

                              £x i[£ξ [gAB ]] ≡ 0.                         (29)


and
Corollary C4:
The Ricci curvature of M is non-negative.
Proof P4:
By construction after direct calculation. 
The bounded-ness of the Ricci curvature from Corollary C4 is studied in [7].
After Remark R3, one notices here that the new implications from the analyses
are addressed in a further work [20].


References
 [1] P. Baird, L. Danielo, Three-dimensional Ricci solitons which project to
     surfaces e-print: arXiv:math/0510313 (2005).

 [2] K. Meena, T. Zawadzki, Clairaut Conformal Submersions, Bull. Malays.
     Math. Sci. Soc. 47, 101 (2024).

 [3] O.M. Lecian, The (total)-umbilicity conditions of static-Fridman-
     Robertson-Walker, Encyclopedia MPDI, Entry ID 59432 (2025).

 [4] R. Hamilton, The Ricci flow on surfaces, Contemp. Math., 71 (1988), 237-
     262.

 [5] M.T.K. Abbassi, I. Lakrini, On the completeness of total spaces of hori-
     zontally conformal submersions, Communications in Mathematics, 29(3),
     493-504 (2021).

 [6] A.M. Blaga, C. Oezguer, Results of Hyperbolic Ricci Solitons, Symmetry
     15(8), 1548 (2023).



                                      13
 [7] O.M. Lecian, The Yamabe flow after the rotational ansatz of noncom-
     pact (pseudo-Riemannian) solitons: the Schwarzschild solitons and the
     Generalized-Schwarzschild ones, Researchgate, Berlin (2026).
 [8] O.M. Lecian, Researchgate, Further cogradient Ricci solitons and about the
     newly-metrized smooth metric space: The Yamabe solitons of spacetimes
     from the matter-dominated era, Berlin (2025).

 [9] I. Vaisman, Conformal foliations, Kodai Math. J., 2 (1979), 26-37.

[10] B. O’Neill, The fundamental equations of a submersion, Michigan Math.
     J., 13 (4), 459-469 (1966).

[11] A. Gray, Pseudo-Riemannian almost product manifolds and submersions,
     J. Math. Mech. 16, 715-737 (1967).

[12] P. Baird, A. El Soufi, A. Fardoun and R. Regbaoui, Progress in Nonlinear
     Differential Equations and Their Applications, Vol. 59, Birkhauser, 2004.

[13] M. Falcitelli, S. Ianus, A.M. Pastore, Riemannian Submersions and Related
     Topics, World Scientific, River Edge, NJ (2004).

[14] R.L. Bishop, Clairaut submersions, Differential geometry (in Honor of K.
     Yano), Kinokuniya, Tokyo, 21-31 (1972).

[15] T. Zawadzki, Existence conditions for conformal submersions with totally
     umbilical fibers, Differential Geom. Appl. 35, 69-84 (2014).

[16] F. Sikander, T. Fatima, S.A. Alharbi, A study on curvature relations of
     conformal generic submersions, Journal of King Saud University - Science
     35, 102526 (2023).

[17] Pasternack, J., Classifying spaces for Riemannian foliations, Proceedings
     Symposia in Pure Math. 27 (1) (1975), 303-310.

[18] I. Vaisman, Variétés Rimanniennes feuilletées, Czechosl. Math. J. 21 (1971),
     46-75.

[19] Nore, T.: Second fundamental form of a map. Ann. Mat. Pura Appl., 146
     (1), 281-310 (1986).

[20] O.M. Lecian, in preparation (2026).




                                        14
