Article

The Yamabe Flow Under the Rotational Ansatz of Noncompact
(Pseudo-Riemannian) Solitons: Schwarzschild Solitons and
Generalized-Schwarzschild Ones
Orchidea Maria Lecian


                                         Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, Viale Regina Elena 324,
                                         00185 Rome, Italy; lecian@icra.it


                                         Abstract
                                         The present paper is aimed at studying the convergence of the Yamabe flow in the case
                                         of noncompact solitons. The more specified example of locally conformally flat noncom-
                                         pact solitons is addressed with the aim to newly analyse the qualities of the Ricci scalar.
                                         The particular case of noncompact pseudo-Riemannian solitons is studied; moreover, in
                                         the instances of Schwarzschild and Generalized-Schwarzschild geometries, rescalings of
                                         spherically symmetric weights are performed. For this purpose, new results are achieved
                                         as far as the considered structures are concerned. The Myers Theorem is upgraded as
                                         the new Myers paradigm of spacetime-dimensional manifolds, where the Einstein Field
                                         Equations can now be taken into account. In particular, the Myers Theorems are studied
                                         here as far as their new implementation in General Relativity Theory is concerned. As a
                                         first important result, the Myers mean curvature is found to coincide with the Ricci scalar in
                                         General Relativity Theory, where the 4-position of the observer, from which the 4-velocity
                                         4-vector is calculated from, is taken as that of the observer solidal with the reference frame
                                         of the photon. The following results are also of relevance. In more detail, the umbilicity
                                         conditions are applied. At a further step, the role of the umbilicity conditions in GR after
                                         the Myers Theorems are studied for weighted manifolds and specific new implications of
                                         weighted manifolds are developed. The description of the weighted Schwarzschild mani-
                                         folds and that of the weighted Generalized-Schwarzschild manifolds are newly studied
                                         as follows: as a new finding, the Birkhoff Theorem is newly reconciled with the rotational
                                         ansatz of the metrised solitons, and the comparison with the previous results about the
                                         Brendle non-metrised solitons is accomplished with the outcome stressing the new roles
                                         of the new rescalings of the metric tensor with respect to the previous known results of
                                         the scaling of the metric tensor of the non-metrised solitons. In the present framework,
                                         these procedures allow one to prove the reconciliation of the EFEs with the Yamabe flow.
                                         The flow on the tipping lightcones is newly written. The umbilicity condition is studied in
                                         General Relativity after the upgrade of the Myers Theorems as far as the sectional curva-
Academic Editor: Anna Maria Fino         tures are concerned; as a result, the Calabi–Bernstein description is implemented in General
Received: 2 February 2026
                                         Relativity, as well as the Chen–Yau requirements, and the cases of weighted manifolds
Revised: 26 March 2026                   are taken into account. More specifically, the equal-time 2-dimensional space surfaces are
Accepted: 31 March 2026                  studied analytically, onto which the weighted General-Relativistic solitons which satisfy
Published: 7 April 2026                  the Einstein field equations after the Yamabe flow are projected due to the rotational ansatz.
Copyright: © 2026 by the author.         As an accessory introductory result, the class of Wu non-metrised solitons are proven to
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
                                         be discarded in several aspects of the Wu description as the conditions provided after the
This article is an open access article
                                         work of Wu are not compatible with metrisation.
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license.




Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                              2 of 33



                       Keywords: Bernstein–Calabi problems; Chen–Yau hypotheses; rotational ansatz;
                       Schwarzschild solitons; Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons

                       MSC: 35C08; 35Q76; 83C20




                       1. Introduction
                             The present paper is aimed at studying the Yamabe flow of weighted, metrised,
                       noncompact pseudo-Riemannian solitons, which are newly obtained after the imposition of
                       the rotational ansatz on the new structures; particular cases of the Schwarzschild geometries,
                       and of the Generalized-Schwarzschild ones, are then taken as instances.
                             The present work is motivated after the results of Yamabe [1]. In the work of
                       Yamabe [1], the theorems are proven, according to which, every compact C ∞ Rieman-
                       nian manifold with n ≥ 3 space dimensions can undergo conformal deformation to a C ∞
                       Riemannian structure of constant scalar curvature.
                             In more detail, the results of Yamabe are in the present paper newly axiomatised as
                       those from an n-spacetime-dimensional manifold, which is then weighted and metrised;
                       the Einstein Field Equations (EFEs) are imposed on the Ricci flow, and the rotational ansatz
                       is required as follows: the study of the induced rescalings of the metric tensor is afforded.
                       As a result, the new Riemannian Levi-Civita connections are newly proven to be unique
                       and to coincide with the Christoffel symbols; the required steps for the calculations are
                       spelled out, which are also newly proven to induce some particular isocline hypersurfaces.
                             One further motivation of the work is the study of the Myers Theorems in General
                       Relativity; as a new result, the Myers mean curvature is proven to coincide with the
                       Ricci scalar, after the proofs of the uniqueness of the Levi-Civita connections and of the
                       identifications of the required Killing vector field(s) with those written after the 4-velocity
                       vector. As a further result, the new aspects of the tangent space are discovered, after which
                       the definitions of the tipping lightcones in the description à la Penrose are shown.
                             As one methodological tool, the Myers paradigm is newly written for the case of
                       noncompact manifolds; as a result, the new definition of Myers mean curvature and
                       the new majorisation theorems are constructed—the mean curvature is here proven to
                       coincide with the Ricci scalar in GR and with the inclusion of weighted solitons. As a
                       further methodological tool, the umbilicity conditions are newly applied to weighted
                       Einsteinian manifolds.
                             The application of the umbilicity conditions to unweighted Einsteinian manifolds has
                       already been performed only in some specific cases.
                             In the work of Alías et al. [2], General-Relativistic spacetimes are considered, whose
                       sectional curvature of the fibre is not constant. Ibidem, the complete spacelike surface is
                       demonstrated to be completely umbilical under the chosen hypotheses; in the case of a
                       compact spacetime manifold, complete umbilicity is taken into account.
                             The particular case of an FRW spacetime is studied ibidem, for which the convergence
                       condition is imposed in the case of a vanishing cosmological constant, which is in the
                       present work considered a particular Generalized-Schwarzschild soliton.
                             Ibidem, generalized-FRW-spacetime slices are taken, and they are demonstrated to
                       have constant mean curvature and total umbilicity.
                             In the present paper, as a further methodological tool, the umbilicity conditions
                       are newly applied to the weighted, metrised manifolds form which the wanted solitons
                       are originated. The paper is structured as follows. One of the goals of the present
                       paper is the obtention of the Yamabe flow of noncompact pseudo-Riemannian spacetime-
                       dimensional manifolds. The results are specialised and applied to the case of the metrised


                                                                                  https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                            3 of 33



                       Schwarzschild soliton of specified Einstein Field Equations (EFEs) and to the metrised
                       Generalized-Schwarzschild ones.
                              For these purposes, the umbilicity conditions are implemented in the study of the
                       first fundamental form and in the second fundamental form, after which the new results
                       are demonstrated as far as weighted manifolds are concerned starting from the work of
                       Alías et al. [2] and the following items of work [3] (which are ones where the paradigms
                       are implemented for the unweighted manifolds of metrised Friedmann–Robertson–Walker
                       spacetimes and are in the present work written for generic weighted manifolds, i.e., the
                       Kaehler-inspired weighted manifolds are also investigated); the Nichikawa Theorems are
                       developed as follows: the Calabi–Bernstein problems are upgraded, and the Chen–Yau
                       description of Maximal spacelike hypersurfaces in Lorentzian Minkowski metrics are
                       upgraded in the case of General-Relativistic instances. As an accessory result, the presence
                       of tachyons is ruled out. In the work [4], the Ricci problem analogous to the Tykhonov
                       example of the heat kernel is investigated for the deformations of the metric tensor.
                              The work [4] motivates the work of Wu [5]. In the work [6], the property of metrised
                       gradient Ricci solitons is studied, where the completeness of the metric g implies the
                       completeness of the vector field ∇µ F that is the F the weight function.
                              In the work of Wu [5], complete noncompact Yamabe solitons are studied; integral
                       conditions are hypothesized on the curvature as follows: the pertinent weight functions
                       are ibidem taken with, at most, quadratic direct growth in the distance. Moreover, the
                       topological properties of this class of solitons are investigated. In the present paper, the
                       Wu solitons are discarded; in more detail, the weight function are proven to be, at most,
                       of linear growth in the distance. The methodology followed here is to discard the integral
                       conditions on the curvature from the work of Wu, as the solitons considered here are
                       solitons metrised in the a smooth metric space of convex functions. The instance of the
                       radial functional dependence on the distance is taken as an example. Moreover, in the
                       work of Wu, the description is provided given that the Ricci curvature from the Yamabe
                       flow of the Wu class of solitons becomes constant; in the present paper, this description is
                       discarded, as the proof shows that metrised solitons exhibit a different behaviour in this
                       case, as follows: the tool utilised here in the newly presented proof is the analysis of the
                       rescaling of the metric tensor under the rotational ansatz, where the weights are put in the
                       square root of the determinant of the metric tensor as a consequence of the metrisation,
                       after which the Yamabe solitons can be also downgraded to non-metrised cases as the EFEs
                       (of which solutions of the Wu class of solitons are described on a Riemannian manifold) for
                       an alternative proof by construction after direct comparison.
                              In the present work, it is also proven that the n-velocity is a complete vector field
                       (i.e., after the use of the tools from [6]), where Mn is an n-spacetime-dimensional manifold;
                       the proof is by construction as follows: this new theorem completes the definition of
                       noncompact metrised Yamabe solitons after Axiom A1 and and after Axiom A2, as the
                       proof is not based on any compactness assumptions, i.e., in the same topology of [6].
                              In the present paper, the Myers Theorems are upgraded to GR, and the required
                       definition of the curvature is newly proven to coincide with the Ricci scalar in GR for
                       unweighted manifolds. Afterwards, the weighted metrised solitons are considered, which
                       are recalled to live on the pseudo-spherical Relativistic cylinder, which, in turn, is here
                       considered for weighted metrised solitons. The metrisation, viewed as one in a space of
                       smooth convex functions, is here newly approached. As a methodology, the behaviours of
                       the Christoffel symbols are studied, which are proven to bring about new results regarding
                       their potential in the Schwarzschild and Generalized-Schwarzschild cases, which allow
                       one to reconcile the EFEs with the Yamabe flow. The newly outlined procedure is thus
                       newly proven to be equivalent to the imposition of the rotational ansatz on the metrised



                                                                                https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                               4 of 33



                       weighted manifolds, whose behaviours are here newly investigated and newly proven
                       to be equivalent with the requirement that the Christoffel symbols for the GR weighted
                       metrised manifold are reconducted to those obeying the Birkhoff Theorem.
                             In the present paper, the following notation is utilised from [7]: Greek-letter indices
                       refer to 4-spacetime-dimensional indices, and Latin-letter indices refer to space-dimensional
                       indices in any number of space dimensions; the metric tensor Ĝ is utilised as that of any
                       number of spacetime dimensions, while the metric tensor ĝ is the 4-spacetime-dimensional
                       metric tensor. The convention c ≡ 1 is here used for the velocity of light c, i.e., also in
                       the definition of the infinitesimal line element. The Einstein summation is implied in the
                       saturated indices. The signature employed is (+, −, −, . . . , −).
                             The paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, the introductory definitions are
                       introduced; a critical review of the previous items of bibliography is conducted, after which
                       the Wu class of Yamabe solitons from [5] is proven to be discarded as the metrisation
                       techniques proposed ibidem are proven to not be consistent with a space of smooth convex
                       functions, which are needed for the definition of pseudo-Riemannian solitons as follows: the
                       new results achieved here are independent of the topology of the solitons. The noncompact
                       solitons which live on the pseudo-spherical GR cylinder are then recalled, whose tangent
                       space is recalled to be illustrated as characterised after tipping lightcones constructed after
                       the Frénet mobile GR triedron.
                             In Section 3, the introductory material is demonstrated.
                             In Section 4, the introductory study is presented as follows: the Myers paradigm,
                       including the Myers Theorem, is reported for compact space-dimensional manifolds from
                       the work of Myers [8].
                             In Section 5, the new Myers paradigm of noncompact spacetime-dimensional mani-
                       folds is newly formulated and shown; the new implementation is also suitable to be applied
                       to the spacetime-dimensional manifolds, in particular, in General Relativity, where the
                       EFEs can be implemented.
                             In Section 6, new results from the umbilicity conditions are presented.
                             In Section 7, selected topics from the work of Yamabe are recalled as far as the Yamabe
                       flow of compact Riemannian manifolds in space dimensions is considered.
                             In Section 8, the new Myers paradigm is newly implemented on Schwarzschild geometries.
                             In Section 9, the new Myers paradigm is newly written on Generalized-
                       Schwarzschild geometries.
                             In Section 10, the new study of the parametric-time-variable-weighted rescaled-
                       Schwarzschild spacetimes is presented.
                             In Section 11, the new study of the radial-variable-weighted Rescaled-Schwarzschild
                       spacetimes is achieved.
                             In Section 12, the new rescalings of the Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes with
                       radial-variable-dependent weights are focused on.
                             In Section 14, some aspects of the results are further discussed, and their role is further
                       characterised within some of the pre-existing literature.
                             In the Outlook Section 15, the reconciliation of the EFEs with the Yamabe flow is
                       proven to be equivalent with the (newly proven) observance of the Birkhoff theorem after
                       the imposition of the newly found conditions of the Christoffel connections of the weighted
                       (metrised) manifolds, whose metrisation itself is proven to define all the rescalings allowed
                       after the rotational ansatz (i.e., not only the one rescaling described in the Brendle analysis).
                       All the new corresponding theorems are proven here.
                             In the Appendices A–F, the Schwarzschild metrics used for this paper are found as
                       follows: the geometrical objects are spelled out.




                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                              5 of 33



                             In Appendix G, the existence and the uniqueness of the Yamabe flow is newly con-
                       trolled to hold in the noncompact case for pseudo-Riemannian manifolds, in which case
                       the applicability is here newly ensured in GR; the cases of weighted manifolds is also taken
                       into account.

                       2. New Definitions for the New Methodologies
                            In the present paper, the new methodology is issued from [9] and from [10] for the
                       metrisation of the manifolds from which the solitons are taken to be implemented. As a
                       methodology, the non-metrised manifolds M are taken, which are compared with those
                       employed in the study of [9,10] about the so-called Brendle solitons. The Brendle solitons
                       are built for the scaling of the metric tensor to be studied. The manifolds M are then
                       metrised after the application of the weights f in the functional form e−2 f , which defines
                       the locally conformally flat transformations of the metric tensor as

                                                              GaB → e−2 f GaB .                                      (1)

                       After Equation (1), the weight functions therefore enter the squared root of the determinant
                       of the metric tensor matrix. Accordingly, not only the scaling, but all the conformal
                       rescalings of the metric tensor can be studied; from this study, the locally conformally
                       flat transformations are found. Moreover, the asymptotical flatness is controlled. As a
                       further result, one finds from [11] that the local volume growth due to the metric tensor
                       is vanishing.
                              After weight metrisation is achieved, the Einstein Field Equations can be controlled,
                       i.e., the constraints arising from the EFEs are implemented. As a result, the time interval
                       (i.e., the exact coordinate-time interval as expressed from the pedexa in Equation (1) during
                       which the Ricci flow is defined is checked; in particular, the RIcci flow is then made to be
                       coherent in the desired time interval.
                              The Ricci flow is this way made to obey the EFEs, i.e., the Ricci solitons obtained
                       this way are from Einsteinian manifolds. The geometrical objects (such as those listed in
                       Appendices A–E, are then calculated from the metric tensor transformed after Equation (1).
                       It is straightforward to verify that the Christoffel symbols contain now the weight functions
                       and their opportune derivatives; accordingly, the Riemann tensor is then calculated, and
                       from its components, the Ricci tensor and the Ricci scalar are written as well as the oppor-
                       tune functions of the weight functions and those of their derivatives. The construction is
                       straightforwardly proven to be unique as the metrised manifolds M, obtained from the
                       non-metrised manifolds M, are Einsteinian as follows: it is straightforwardly checked as
                       well that the Levi-Civita connections of Einsteinian manifolds are unique, and that they
                       coincide with the Christoffel symbols in GR.
                              It is now my aim to impose the Yamabe flow as follows.

                       2.1. About Noncompact Yamabe Solitons
                             Noncompact solitons are here newly described, where the main aspects are recalled in
                       order to correct the work of Wu [5]. Noncompact Yamabe solitons admit a smooth vector
                       field X α such that it is a conformal Killing vector as the metric tensor obeys the requirement

                                                              ∂
                                                                g = − Rgαβ                                           (2)
                                                              ∂t αβ

                       after which the Riemannian manifold ( Mn , g) is considered.




                                                                                  https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                    6 of 33



                           From the work of Wu, the Ricci scalar R is proposed to be characterised after the
                       weight function F as obeying the limit

                                                            lim F→const R | Yamabe → C                                     (3)

                       where R | Yamabe is the Ricci scalar evaluated after [5] in the Yamabe flow on the non-
                       metrised Mn with, generically,
                                                             2X A ≡ ∇ A F                                  (4)

                       being C a constant.
                           Here, I set

                       Axiom 1. The Yamabe soliton is obtained as

                                                           Rgαβ + ∇α ∇ β F = −λgαβ .                                       (5)

                       from

                       Axiom 2. The application of the Lie derivative is performed according to X µ as

                                                            RGαβ + £L X Gαβ ≡ λgαβ .                                       (6)

                            It is now momentous to remark that

                       Remark 1. Axiom 2 induces the specific result that the conformal Killing vector field is obtained
                       after a concurrent vector field; indeed, the position is proven in [9] to be a concurrent vector field
                       in GR, as follows: the conformal Killing vector field is here then calculated after the 4-velocity
                       vector field.

                       Remark 2. The degrees of freedom permitted after the non-vanishing components of the 4-velocity
                       vector field have been examined in the subsequent work of the author

                            In more detail,

                       Remark 3. The solitons in vacuum spacetimes exhibit at least one degree of freedom of the non-
                       vanishing radial component of the 4-velocity vector field, which is also true in the Schwarzschild case.

                       Remark 4. The solitons in non-vacuum spacetimes exhibit at least two degrees of freedom, i.e., one
                       from the radial component of the 4-velocity vector field, and one from the time component of the
                       4-velocity vector field, as it is analysed in the Schwarzschild spacetimes.

                           The new definition of concurrent vector fields in GR is obtained in [9].
                           The specifications occur for a steady soliton with λ ≡ 0, expanding the soliton with
                       λ > 0, and shrinking solitons with λ < 0, i.e., the signs in Equation (6) are
                       chosen accordingly.
                           I correct that here.

                       Theorem 1. The Schwarzschild soliton is metrised as its Ricci scalar RS obeys the limit

                                                         lim F→const RS | EFEs−Yamabe ≡ 0.                                 (7)

                       Remark 5. The case lim F→0 in Theorem 1 allows one to recover the GR unweighted
                       Schwarzschild spacetime.



                                                                                       https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                       7 of 33



                             Moreover,

                       Theorem 2. The Generalized-Schwarzchild soliton is metrised as its Ricci scalar RGS and obeys
                       the limit
                                                  lim F→const RGS | EFEs−Yamabe > 0.                              (8)

                       2.2. Metrised Noncompact Yamabe Solitons and Isoperimetric Inequalities
                            In the following, my methodology attempts to correct Theorem 1.6 from [5] and to
                       then refine the integral estimate from Theorem 1.2 from ibidem.
                            One has

                       Axiom 3. Given the (geodesics) distance D ( p a , x a ), the weight function is majorised as

                                                              F < C1 D 2 + C2 D + C3                                          (9)

                       for all λ; here, ≡ D (( p), x ), with p being the initial point and x the arrival point; the dimensionfull
                       constants C1 , C2 , and C3 are introduced. □


                       Remark 6. Axiom 3 implies the convexity of the metric space to be metrised (i.e., the metric space
                       is one of convex functions also before the performance of the metrisation).

                             This way, one is allowed to calculate all the necessitated isoperimetric inequalities.

                       Remark 7. The case C1 ≡ λ/2 can be of interest in the case λ < 0.

                       Remark 8. The use of p a and that of x a are here stressed to be applied to the graph manifolds in
                       the following.

                             Moreover,

                       Theorem 3. In the Schwarzschild case, the limit holds
                                                                      Z xα
                                                                  1
                                                        limD →∞              dVol [ F, G ] RS ≡ 0.                           (10)
                                                                  D     pα

                       Proof of Theorem 3. By construction, after the Birkhoff Theorem, when the definition of
                       the convex function is utilised, the infinitesimal volume element dVol [ F, G ] is calculated
                       directly from the right-hand side of Equation (1), with F being the selected weight.

                       and

                       Theorem 4. In the Generalized-Schwarzschild case, the limit holds
                                                                      Z xα
                                                               1
                                                       limD →∞               dVol [ F, G ] RGS > 0.                          (11)
                                                               D       pα

                       Proof of Theorem 4. By construction, after the Birkhoff Theorem, when the definition of
                       the convex function is utilised, the infinitesimal volume element dVol [ F, G ] is calculated
                       directly from the right-hand side of Equation (1), with F being the selected weight. Indeed,
                       the isoperimetric inequalities which are obeyed by the distances are utilised.

                       Remark 9. I remark here that the choice of the specification of the Ricci scalar on ’minimal geodesics
                       with unit velocity’ is here redundant within the framework of the present paper.



                                                                                           https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                        8 of 33



                       Remark 10. The isoperimetric inequalities obeyed after the definition of convex functions are
                       analysed in [12,13].

                       2.3. The Motivations of the Study
                            Theorem 1.1 from [4] is here reported as

                       Theorem 5. Let ( M3 , g( x )) be a complete noncompact 3-space-dimensional manifold of bounded
                       nonnegative sectional curvature S such that 0 ≤ S ≤ D0 with D0 a fixed constant being g( x ) the
                       initial data of the Ricci flow. Be g(1) (t) and g(2) (t) two smooth complete solutions of the Ricci flow:
                       they admit the comparison g(1) (t) = g(2) (t) when 0 ≤ t ≤ min[ T0 , 4D1 0 ].

                            From definition 1.2 from [6], the following new one is given

                       Definition 1. Be ( Mn , g(t), X A ) a smooth non-metrised Yamabe soliton with a smooth pseudo-
                       Riemannian metric with X µ a smooth vecotr field.

                            There follows that

                       Theorem 6. The pseudo-Riemannian non-metrised Yamabe soliton from the ( Mn , g(t)), X A exists
                       if there exists the Perelman diffeomorfism ϕ∗ ( g(0) ), i.e., such that there exist the scalars σ(i) ( X A )
                       which defines
                                                               g(t) ≡ σ(i) ϕ∗ ( g(0) )                                        (12)

                       where the Perelman diffeomorphisms are generated after X A .

                            The parabolocity of the flow equations is controlled in Appendix F.
                            Theorem 5 is now upgraded to pseudo spacetime pseudo-Riemannian manifolds as

                       Theorem 7. Be ( Mn , g( x )) a complete noncompact n-spacetime-dimensional manifold of bounded
                       nonnegative sectional curvature S such that 0 ≤ S ≤ D0 with D0 being a fixed constant and g( x )
                       the initial data of the Ricci flow. Let g(1) (t) and g(2) (t) be two smooth complete solutions of the
                                                                                                                     1
                       Ricci flow as follows: they admit the comparison g(1) (t) = g(2) (t) when 0 ≤ t ≤ min[ T0 , 4D  0
                                                                                                                         ].□

                            The rotational ansatz is now analysed as

                       Theorem 8. The triple ( M, g, X A ) obeys the rotational ansatz and can be metrised as a
                       Yamabe soliton.

                       Proof of Theorem 8. The field X A is from the velocity vector field, which is smooth.

                            Then,

                       Theorem 9. The noncompact metrised Yamabe solitons obey the Rotational ansatz.

                       Proof of Theorem 4. The velocity vector field is complete.

                            The Perelman diffeomorphisms are now explored as

                       Theorem 10. The Perelman diffeomorphisms define a unique diffeomorphism in the case of non-
                       compact pseudo-Riemannian metrised solitons.

                           The paradigm can bow be applied to Schwarzschild spacetimes and to Generalized-
                       Schwarzschild spacetimes.




                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                  9 of 33



                       2.4. Solitons on the GR Metrised Pseudo-Spherical Cylinder
                             In the present Subsection, the GR metrised pseudo-spherical cylinder is recalled
                       from [9].
                             The tangent cylinder is recalled here to be proven to consist of exactly all the geodesics
                       that access (i.e., which attain at) the point from the future and on the point π located on the
                       fictitious singularity. Thus,

                       Theorem 11. The tangent cylinder is geodesically complete.

                            This way,

                       Theorem 12. All unperturbed Schwarzschild solutions of the EFEs establishe a Schwarzschild
                       black hole.

                       Proof of Theorem 12. All of the cylinders tangent to the Schwarzschild black hole are
                       geodesically complete.

                              The GR pseudo-spherical cylinder is spelled out analytically as follows.
                              The weights f imply the existence of the Killing vector field ξ µ : k µ kµ = −1; from the
                       configurations of the observer (in the reference frame solidal with the photon), k µ ≡ ∇µ vr ,
                       i.e., such that
                                                                 ∇µ f ≡ ξ µ                                        (13)

                       after which

                                                         ∇0 f α = ξ 0 = Γ0α
                                                                         σ
                                                                            fσ ,                                      (14a)
                                                         ∇r f α = ξ r = ∂r f α + Γrα
                                                                                  σ
                                                                                     fσ ,                             (14b)
                                                         ∂θ f θ = 0,                                                  (14c)
                                                         ∂θ f ϕ = 0.                                                  (14d)

                       The additional degree of freedom is obtained from the component of the 4-spacetime-
                       dimensional velocity 4-vector v0 , according to which one has that

                                                                 χ µ ≡ ∇ µ v0 .                                         (15)

                       3. Introductory Material
                            In the work of Chow [14], the Yamabe flow is studied in the case of compact lo-
                       cally conformally flat manifolds when the Ricci curvature is positive. The description is
                       demonstrated ibidem to necessitate that the manifold is conformal to a spherical form.
                            Theorem 1.2 from ibidem is aimed at proving that the corresponding Yamabe flow
                       implies a metric tensor converging to a constant-curvature one in the large-time limit. It is
                       here stressed that the covering of such manifolds is considered in the present work.
                            In the work of Schoen [15], the compact n-space-dimensional manifold with n ≥ 3 is
                       considered. The metric tensor g is deformed as
                                                                              4
                                                              gij → g̃ ≡ u n−1 gij                                      (16)

                       When the scalar curvature is required to be constant, u obeys the equation

                                                                 n−2             n +2
                                                         ∇u −             Ru + u n−2 ,                                  (17)
                                                                2( n − 1)




                                                                                      https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                     10 of 33



                       then u is proven to be nonzero.
                             In the approach followed in the present paper, the positive-mass theorems are not
                       utilised, and the energy conditions are not invoked.
                             The problem is here also solved at n = 2 space dimensions.
                             In the work of Brendle [16], the Yamabe flow of a Riemannian compact manifold is
                       proven to converge in the opportune space dimensions after a conformally flat initial metric.
                       The boundedness of the conformal factor is investigated. The convergence of the Yamabe
                       flow of locally conformally flat metric tensors is studied in [14] under the hypothesis of
                       positive scalar curvature.
                             In the work of Ye [17], the results of [14] are studied in the case of a locally conformally
                       flat metric tensor after the introductory work of Ye [18].
                             The study of the length of geodesics is motivated after the work of Synge [19].

                       4. The New Myers Method of Spacetime-Dimensional Manifolds
                            In the present Section, some of the results from the works of Myers and related material
                       are shown in order to be implemented to the spacetime-dimensional newly metrised
                       manifolds in Section 5.
                            The original work of Myers [8] was motivated after [20], pag. 224 ibidem, and after [21].
                       In the work of Myers [8], the Myers Theorems of Riemannian manifolds exhibiting positive
                       mean curvature are proven.
                            Ibidem, Riemannian compact space-dimensional manifolds are considered.
                            Ibidem, the metric tensor is considered gij such that

                                                                        Gij ≡ δij ,                                         (18)

                       where the Kronecker delta is utilised, such that

                                                                        ∂
                                                                           G = 0.                                           (19)
                                                                       ∂x c ab

                       The coordinates are ibidem considered as x1 , x2 , . . . n, x n−1 , which are required to be con-
                                                √
                       stant along g (g ≡ − g being the square root of the opportunely chosen specification of
                       the metric tensor). Let x n be the arclength s on gij measured from point P. In more detail,
                       the point P is chosen on Gij with respect to the plane of directions determined after the unit
                       vector (0, 0, . . . , 1) tangent of gij at P.
                            Accordingly, the following methodology is now shown from [8]

                       Proposition 1. Any vector (w1 , w2 , ..., wn−1 , 0) orthogonal to Gij at the point P̄ is written after
                       the mean curvature k as
                                                                         R     wi w k
                                                           k ( P̄, n) ≡ ninkj                                            (20)
                                                                            w wj

                       with the definition

                       Definition 2. The Myers mean curvature k is defined after the Riemann tensor as

                                                         k ( P̄) = Rnjnk g jk ≡ − Rnnjk g jk .                              (21)

                            From the work of Myers [8], the variation J (w) is considered

                                                                           dxi dx j
                                                             Z P                   
                                                                   A
                                                                        Gij n n ds                                          (22)
                                                               0           dx dx




                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                        11 of 33



                       for arbitrary functions w1 (s), w2 (2), . . . , wn−1 (s).
                            In the compact case, one has that

                                                               wi (0) ≡ wi ( PA ) ≡ 0.                                         (23)

                       Ibidem, the vector wi is specified as

                                                                    wi ≡ F ( s ) ξ i ;                                         (24)

                            The would-be point Q is considered (after the work of Lecian [9], the would-be point
                       Q is proven not to exists) as one conjugate to P; the vector wi is vanishing identically when
                       M contains the would-be point Q.
                            The variation J (w) is proven to be such that

                                                               J (w) > 0 ∀ F (s) ̸= 0                                          (25)

                       unless M contains a would-be point Q; no geodesics can be a minimizing arc when the
                       suitable limit (i.e., one calculated in [8]) is taken.

                       4.1. The Covering Manifold of the Compact-Space Dimension Manifold
                            The notion of the covering manifold from the work of Myers is motivated after the
                       studied from [20]. The notions characterising covering manifolds can be summarised
                       from [22]. From [20], a complete surface whose curvature (to be further defined in the
                       present work) is everywhere greater than or equal to a positive constant that is demon-
                       strated to be closed. From [21], the results from [20] are extended to the universal covering
                       manifold. It is one of the aims of the present work to study the universal covering manifolds
                       after the new upgrades of the Myers definitions in GR.
                            In more detail, while the covering manifold of a compact manifold is also a compact
                       manifold, the covering manifold of a noncompact manifold is here one which is noncompact.
                       In the latter case, the local Perelman diffeomorphism is here proven to be generated.

                       4.2. The Myers Upper Bound of the Diameter(s)
                            From the work of Myers, the n-space-dimensions unit sphere is studied to be endowed
                       with a constant unit curvature and to be of constant mean curvature which equals n − 1
                       with diameter π.
                            As an implication, the upper bound of the diameters cannot be improved.

                       5. The New Myers Paradigm of Spacetime-Dimensional Manifolds
                           The new Myers paradigm is here newly worked out in the case of spacetime-
                       dimensional manifolds.
                           The Myers curvature is defined as K on spacetime-dimensional manifolds as

                       Definition 3. The Myers curvature on spacetime-dimensional manifolds M is written as
                                                                        µ
                                                                      R ρµσ vρ vσ ggρσ
                                                                K≡                       .                                     (26)
                                                                            vρ vσ gρσ

                       with vµ (τ ) being the vector tangent to the manifold M according to the affine parameter τ; the
                       component of the tangent vectors are written as

                                                                               dx µ
                                                                     vµ ≡                                                      (27)
                                                                               dτ



                                                                                             https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                        12 of 33



                       where the vector x µ is a concurrent vector field.

                       Proposition 2. The paradigm in here implemented, according to which the velocity uµ is chosen
                       as that measured from configuration of the reference frame of the observer solidal with the photon,
                       which selects the definition of the time variable from the (possible) affine parametrisation(s).

                       Remark 11. It is here recalled that the photon from Remark RP1 is moving on the selected geodesics.

                            Therefore, the vector tangent to M is specified after Proposition P1 as

                       Definition 4. The vector tangent to M in the point P is written according to the parametrisation
                       of the time variable as
                                                                       dx µ
                                                                vµ ≡        .                                      (28)
                                                                        dt
                       and is such that
                                                                      vµ vµ = −1.                                              (29)

                       when the GR configuration of the reference frame of the observer solidal with the photon is taken.

                       6. New Results About the Umbilicity Conditions
                           Following from Section 5 from [2], the new result is here presented, which, for any GR
                       spacetime manifold, when the timelike congruence conditions are obeyed, every spacelike
                       hypersurface which is endowed with constant mean curvature is umbilical regardless the
                       compactness; it is here remarked that, in the original presentation of [2], the results were
                       proven only in the case of compactness.

                       6.1. The First Integral Form
                            The first integral form is now studied following the notation from [2], where the
                       overscript ¯ is referred to as the unweighted GR manifold.
                       The first integral form is written as
                                                    Z 
                                                          F ′ (πI ) + ḡµν aµ N ν H        − gd4 x = 0
                                                                                      p
                                                                                                                               (30)
                                                      S

                       with H being the mean curvature, where the spacelike hypersurface χ is taken into account,
                       for which x : S → M̄ of a GR spacetime whose immersed manifold is M̄; N µ being the
                       unitary timelike vector field normal to S which is normalized from N µ in Equation (30)
                       normal to S, of which the orientation is taken as parallel to ∂t , i.e., such that the directions
                       of infalling into the black hole is taken as the positive one, while the escape direction is
                       considered with a negative sign when the black hole spacetimes are studied. Moreover, aµ
                       from Equation (30) is the timelike vector field aµ ∈ χ( M̄) as

                                                                    at ≡ F (πI )∂t                                             (31)

                       and it is equipped with the sign selected from the direction as the tangent component ( a T )µ
                       is written, i.e., also from [2], in the present case, in an arbitrary spacetime dimensional
                       spacetime to be metrised as

                                                           ( a T ) M ≡ a M + ḠPΣ a P N Σ W M                                  (32)

                       with a M ∈ χ(S) tangent to S; it is here recalled that this construction is possible as the
                       position is a concurrent vector field in General Relativity. Furthermore, ( a T ) M must now be
                       normalized such that it becomes tangent to S as the tangent direction vector from the Frénet



                                                                                             https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                                               13 of 33



                                      construction. The normalization is taken after choosing the configuration of the reference
                                      frame of the observer solidal with the photon which follows, in turn, the geodesics paths
                                      also in the weighted-manifolds cases.
                                           The metric Ḡ MN is now hypothesized to be Lorentzian for the spacetime to be metrised.

                                      6.2. The Second Integral Form
                                           The notation from Equation (9) from [2] is now followed for the second integral form
                                      to be written, which is here newly extended in the unweighted manifold as
                                                Z h                                                                            ip
                                                         (n − 1) ḠMN ∇ M H a N + R MN ( A T ) M W N + GMN A M N N U                − gd N x = 0      (33)
                                                 S

                                      being n ≤ N.
                                          The total umbilicity condition is now imposed as

                                                                                    V = tr ( A2 ) − nH2 ≡ 0                                           (34)

                                      when the immersion is totally umbilical.
                                           The condition is now here newly proven so that the total-umbilicity condition posed
                                      on the normalized tangent vector from the Frénet construction makes the second integral
                                      form vanish after the vanishing of each addend identically. Indeed, one has that

                                                                                    ∇ M H ≡ ∂ M /∂H ≡ 0,                                              (35)

                                      and, in particular,
                                                                                          ∇µ H = ∂µ/H,                                                (36)

                                      and, therefore, the new prescription is found
                                                                                Z
                                                                                                         − gd4 x = 0.
                                                                                                     p
                                                                                        Rµν vµ N ν                                                    (37)
                                                                                    S

                                      This way, the condition is found in vacuum and in the presence of interstellar medium.
                                           Equation (10) from [2] is now explicated as

                                                                                      gµν aµ N ν gρσ aρ N σ
                                                                                                                   
                            T µ                                               1
                       Rµν ( a ) N ≡ gµν a N
                                  ν         µ        ν
                                                             Rµν N̂ µN̂ − ′ 2
                                                                      ν
                                                                                   1−                            ξ ζ
                                                                                                            Rξζ a a     ≡0                            (38)
                                                                         F (πI )            F 2 (πI )
                                      therefore one takes
                                                                                            N µ = (1,⃗0).                                             (39)

                                      In vacuum, one has that Rtt ≡ 0, and thus,
                                                                                                              2
                                                                                         F 2 (πI ) = gtt at                                           (40)

                                      as
                                                                                           ( a T )µ ≡ ( at ,⃗0)                                       (41)

                                      i.e., the tangentiality condition of aµ is implied straightforwardly.

                                      7. Selected Topics About the Yamabe Flow in Space dimensions
                                          Selected topics from the work of Yamabe [1] are now recalled when Riemannian
                                      compact space-dimensional manifolds are taken into account.
                                          For this purposes, the foundational requirements from the work of Hamilton [23] are
                                      now revised.
                                          From the work of Hamilton [23], the flow is studied



                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                        14 of 33




                                                                     ∂
                                                                       g = (R − R) gij                                         (42)
                                                                     ∂t ij
                       with R being the mean curvature.
                            For the purposes of the study, the following theorems are ibidem proven, as follows:
                            Theorem 1.1 from ibidem states that

                       Theorem 13. ∀ initial data of the flow Equation (42), the solution exists.

                            Theorem 1.2 from ibidem establishes that

                       Theorem 14. If R < 0, then the metric tensor Gij converges to one of constant curvature.

                           In Theorem 14, the sign of the Myers mean curvature from Equation (21) is taken into
                       account, which is here now normalized.
                           Theorem 1.3 from the work of Hamilton [23] allows one to prove that

                       Theorem 15. If R > 0, then the metric tensor Gij converges to one of constant curvature.

                            Theorem 1 from the work of Yamabe [1] is here reported as

                       Theorem 16. Let S be the N-space-dimensional C ∞ Riemannian manifold in n ≥ 3-space-
                       dimensions; and let gij be the fundamental tensor which is C ∞ . Let the normalized volume be
                       V = 1. The conformal transformation is written as a conformal factor of the metric tensor.

                       Proof of Theorem 16. Let the conformal transformation of a Riemannian structure undergo
                       the transformation
                                                          gij → ḡij ≡ e2ρ gij ;                           (43)

                       let ρi = ∂ρ/∂xi ; this way,

                                                                                1
                                                         ρ jk ≡ ρ j,k − ρ j ρk + glm ρl ρm g jk .                              (44)
                                                                                2



                            Accordingly, the Ricci tensor is scaled as

                                                     R jk → R̄ jk ≡ R jk − (n − 2)ρ jk − g jk ρl l                             (45)

                       and the Ricci scalar is scaled as
                                                                                      
                                                        R → R̄ ≡ e−2ρ R − (n − 2)ρl l − .                                      (46)

                       Let ∆Gij be the Laplace–Beltrami operator of Gij ; the scaling of R in Equation (45) is now
                       written as

                                                                      n − 1 ( n +1 ) ρ
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                  n −1 ρ
                                               R̄ = e   −2ρ
                                                                  R−4      e  2        (∆gij )e ( 2   )    .                   (47)
                                                                      n−2

                       Remark 12. In the following, the fundamental metric tensor gij from Theorem 16 is taken as the
                       metric tensor of the same manifold.

                            Furthermore, from the work of Yamabe [1], the following analysis is reported.




                                                                                             https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                           15 of 33



                            Let
                                                                              n
                                                                      ū = e( 2 −1)ρ ;                                            (48)

                       therefore, the Ricci scalar is proven to be scaled as

                                                               n +2                    n−1
                                                          R̄ūe n−2 ρ = Rū − 4            ∆ū.                                   (49)
                                                                                       n−2

                       The following theorems are revised

                       Theorem 17. ∀q < n2n
                                          −2 ∃ a positive function v
                                                                     (q) after which the Yamabe flow which obeys the

                       EFEs is fulfilled.

                       Theorem 18. The limit of the geometrical objects limq→ 2n exists, it is uniform, and it is such that
                                                                                         n −2
                       ∃v(q) , where v(q) is positive.

                       After Theorem 18, one sees that Equation (49) is solved with

                                                                              µ
                                                               C0 =                  .                                            (50)
                                                                          2n/(n − 2)

                       Theorem 18 implies the following

                       Theorem 19. ∃ ū positive C ∞ function such that

                                                            n +2                         n−1
                                                         −ū n−2 C0 = Rū = −4               ∆ū                                  (51)
                                                                                         n−2

                       with C0 being the dimensional constant, and C0 ≡ 12 .

                       Lemmas About the Yamabe Flow
                                            4
                            Let ϵ > 0, ϵ < n− 2 ; then

                                                                            Z            1/2
                                                                                   q
                                                            || u || q =           u dV                                            (52)

                       with uq ∈ L p ; L p is the Banach space of real functions with norm || · || p .

                       8. The New Myers Paradigm of Schwarzschild Geometries
                            In the present Section, the new Myers paradigm from Section 5 is newly implemented
                       on Schwarzschild (S) geometries.
                            The example of spherically symmetric spaces is taken from [24].
                                            µ
                            The 4 velocity vS is recalled to be written as

                                                                   vS ≡ (0, ur , 0, 0).
                                                                    µ
                                                                                                                                  (53)

                                                                                                                  µ
                       From the normalization of the choice of Definition D33, the 4-velocity vS is noted to obey
                       the normalization from Equation (29) as

                                                          vµ vν gµν = ur ur gS rr = −1.                                           (54)

                       This way,




                                                                                                https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                       16 of 33



                       Theorem 20. The Myers mean curvature of the Schwarzschild spacetimes is now newly spelled
                       out as                     µ             µ
                                                R rµr ur ur   R rµr ur ur · (−1)/grr
                                           KS ≡             ≡                        ≡R                     (55)
                                                   ur ur            (−1)/grr
                       with R being the Ricci scalar and r and µ the indices of the components of the vectors on which the
                       summation of saturated indices is performed.

                       Remark 13. The Ricci tensor is recalled to be calculated from the volume variation with respect to
                       the flat spacetime case. The Ricci scalar from Theorem 20 is recalled to be written as the opportune
                       saturation of the Ricci tensor with the metric tensor.

                             As a result, the following is proven

                       Theorem 21. The Myers mean curvature of the Schwarzschild spacetime manifold is vanishing
                       identically, as
                                                             KS ≡ 0                                          (56)

                       and

                       Theorem 22. The sectional curvature S of the Schwarzschild spacetime is vanishing identically.

                       9. The New Myers Paradigm of Generalized-Schwarzschild Geometries
                             In the present Section, the New Myers paradigm from Section 5 is newly written on
                       Generalized-Schwarzschild (GS) geometries. The example of spherically symmetric spaces
                                                           µ
                       is taken from [24]. The 4 velocity vS is recalled to be written as

                                                              vGS ≡ (ut , ur , 0, 0).
                                                                 µ
                                                                                                                              (57)

                       The normalization Equation (29) is now applied to the objects from Definition D31, from
                       which the Ricci scalar RGS is not a priori vanishing. Accordingly, the Myers mean curvature
                       of the Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes is not a priori vanishing, i.e.,

                       Theorem 23. The Myers mean curvature of the Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes is
                       positive, i.e.,
                                                         KGS ≥ 0                                      (58)

                       10. New Study of the Parametric-Time-Variable-Weighted Rescaled-
                       Schwarzschild Spacetimes
                           The study of the parametric-time is now addressed, with the time variable t
                       from Appendix A the conformal-time parameter. The time-variable-dependent-weighted
                       Rescaled-Schwarzschild spacetimes are studied in order to obtain a vanishing Ricci scalar
                       and a vanishing Ricci tensor, which overlaps with those of the Schwarzschild case.
                           The vanishing of the Ricci tensor is obtained after imposing
                                                                      2
                                                                               d2
                                                             
                                                                 df
                                                                           −       f = 0,                                     (59)
                                                                 dt            dt2

                       which follows after                                                2/3
                                                             1 1       3
                                                      f ≡−         − 6Ho  ( t − t o ) + 1                                     (60)
                                                             4 Ho2




                                                                                            https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                     17 of 33



                       with Ho being the initial-value problem of the total time derivative

                                                                        df
                                                                  lim        = 0.                                           (61)
                                                                  H0 →0 dt

                       The limit in Equation (61) is also defined as

                                                                       df
                                                                  lim     = 0.                                              (62)
                                                                  t→to dt

                       Furthermore, the vanishing behaviour of the Ricci scalar is now obtained after
                                                              "                   2 #
                                                              d2 f
                                                                        
                                                                             df
                                                         lim       −                     =0                                 (63)
                                                         t→to dt2            dt

                       which is obtained after                                            2/3
                                                            1 1        3
                                                    f ≡−          − 3 H o ( t − t o ) + 1                                   (64)
                                                            2 H2o
                       which is realized after the position
                                                                   2Ho = H0 .                                               (65)

                       Moreover, the degree of the infinitesimal of Ho with respect to the t variables is now defined
                       after Equation (61), and also, after Equation (63), and from the same limit of the derivative

                                                       df            2Ho4
                                                          =                     4/3 .                                      (66)
                                                       dt   −6Ho3 (t − to ) + 1

                       10.1. Study of the Equal-Time-Isocline Hypersurfaces
                            Equation (64), and, in turn, the implication from Equation (66) are equalled; as a result,
                       the equal-time hypersurfaces (ETHs), are defined as

                                                         −6Ho3 (t − to ) + 1 = const                                        (67)

                       Equation (67) is one realization of the Yamabe flow.

                       10.2. One Bernstein–Calabi Problem
                            It is the aim of the present section to study the Bernstein–Calabi problem associated
                       with the parametric-time-variable-weighted Rescaled-Schwarzschild spacetimes.
                            In this case, one has that the surface on which these isoclines live is one of constant
                       vanishing mean curvature H ≡ f ′ (t) |t0 / f (t0 ), which corresponds to the constraint
                       t ≡ 0, with f (t) > 0, which implies that the surface is minimal; moreover, the surface is
                       proven to be maximal after [25,26], after which the first fundamental form is equal to the
                       second fundamental form. As a result, one finds that the wanted surface is a plane. The
                       Bernstein–Calabi problem solved here is introduced after the notation from [27].

                       11. New Study of the Radial-Variables-Weighted Rescaled-Schwarzschild
                       Spacetimes
                            The study of the radial-variable-dependent-weighted Rescaled-Schwarzschild space-
                       times is now newly addressed after the spelling of the geometrical objects from Appendix A.
                            The reconduction of the corresponding Christoffel symbols is written to obtain the
                       corresponding components of the Ricci tensor and the corresponding Ricci scalar as
                       vanishing ones.




                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                                     18 of 33



                            The strictest analytical instance is from the Christoffel symbol Γrt
                                                                                               t , whose behaviours

                       are now subsequently studied.
                            For the Christoffel symbol Γrtt to be restored, the limiting required behaviour of


                                                                                              df
                                                                         2r (r − ro )            =0                                         (68)
                                                                                              dr
                       is studied.
                             The required limit is therefore written as

                                                                          limr d f →0 f = 0                                                 (69)
                                                                                   dr


                       which implies, in turn,
                                                               lim d f f =→ limro →0 f = 0.                                                 (70)
                                                                    dln(r )

                       From Equation (70), one newly learns that the role of the spherical weight function f (r ) is
                       to avoid that the size of the fictitious-singularity radius is reduced from its value equivalent
                       to the Schwarzschild radius rS .
                            The spherical-weighted Schwarzschild spacetimes can therefore be newly written as
                                                                                                         
                                                                              −2 f (r )          ro + ϵ
                                                                gtt ≡ e                       1−                                            (71)
                                                                                                    r

                       for the limit ϵ → 0 to be studied without entering the fictitious singularity, i.e., when the
                       role of the weight function is newly taken into account, for

                                                                               rS ≡ ro + ϵ                                                  (72)

                       remains to be defined as the Schwarzschild radius.

                       Explicit Analytical Solution of the Spherical-Symmetry Scale Factor
                            The rr component of the Ricci tensor is now studied as
                                                                  "                       #
                                                             1        df               df
                                                   Rrr = −          3r 2 (r − ro ) + 2      ≡0                                              (73)
                                                           r − rS     dr               dr

                       and it is required to vanish identically for conformal invariance to be preserved
                       under rescalings.
                           The limit                      "                      #
                                                                      df      df
                                               limr d f →0 r (r − rS ) 2 + 2r      =0                (74)
                                                    dr                dr      dr

                       is now discussed for non-vanishing r as follows.
                            The behaviours of the addend are studied

                                                                         df                              d df
                                         lim d f          r (r − r S )       = 0 ≡ lim d f →0 (r − rS )                                     (75)
                                             dln(r )
                                                       →0                dr2          dln(r )           dlnr dr

                       after which follows that
                                                                                            
                                                                          1    d       df
                                                       limr→ro lim d f →0                      = 0;                                         (76)
                                                                  dln(r ) ro dln(r ) dln(r )

                       the requirement
                                                                                d2 f
                                                                                       =0                                                   (77)
                                                                              (dlnr )2


                                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                     19 of 33



                       is solved as
                                                                                r
                                                                    f ≡ F0 ln                                               (78)
                                                                                ro
                       with f 0 being the initial-value-problem of f ; the choice of limϵ→0 (r0 + ϵ ≡ rS ) allows one
                       to let the solution
                                                                           r
                                                               f ≡ f 0 ln                                         (79)
                                                                          rS
                       be well-posed when Fo (ro → f 0 (rS )).

                       12. The Rescalings of the Generalized-Schwarzschild Spacetimes with
                       Radial-Variable-Dependent Weights
                           The rescalings of the Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes with radial-variable-
                       dependent weights are now studied.
                           For this purpose, the Christoffel symbols Γttr are studied, i.e.,
                                                                                              
                                       t       11       1          df                   dΦ         t
                                      Γrt =−                     2r (rΦ + r − ro ) − r2    − ro ≡ Γrt
                                               2 r r − ro + rΦ     dr                   dr

                       to be reconducted to the Schwarzschild case, i.e., such that they are reduced to the expres-
                       sion of
                                                                  1 rS
                                                           Γttr ≡           .
                                                                  2 r − rS
                       The limit                                                             
                                                           1          df                   dΦ
                                          limro →rS                 2r (rΦ + r − ro ) − r2      =0                          (80)
                                                      r − ro + rΦ     dr                   dr
                       is now studied.
                            From the vanishing of the numerator from Equation (80), one has that
                                                                                
                                                          df                  dΦ
                                                       r 2 (rΦ + r − ro ) − r      =0                                       (81)
                                                          dr                  dr

                       as
                                                            dΦ    df      r 
                                                               =2      Φ+r− S                                               (82)
                                                            dr    dr        r
                       and after posing
                                                                                     ro
                                                              Q ≡ Φe−2 f ≡ r −                                              (83)
                                                                                     r
                       with the requirement that the rescaling invariance is to be realized after f ≡ 0, one writes
                       (see Section 10.2)
                                                         dΦ      df            
                                                             =2       1 + e −2 f .                             (84)
                                                         dr      dr
                       Equation (84) is integrated as
                                                                 1 −2 f            1 −2 f o
                                                        h                                   i
                                                  Φ ≡ Φ0 e2( f − 2 e ) − e2( f o − 2 e )               ,                    (85)
                                                                                                f =0

                       which, in turn, is spelled out as as

                                                                    ro
                                                               r−      ≡ c1 (r o − 1)                                       (86)
                                                                    r
                       with the dimensional constant c1 as
                                                                                1 −2 f o
                                                                 h                       i
                                                            c 1 ≡ − e 2 ( f o − 2 e ) f =0                                  (87)

                       which is calculated after the choice of the initial value of f = 0.



                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                        20 of 33



                            This sway, the limit
                                                                         dΦ
                                                               limΦ→0       ≡0                                                 (88)
                                                                         dr
                       is imposed for the study of the isocline lines.
                            The role of f is to force

                                                      lim dΦ →0 Φ(r ) ≡ limro →rS Φ(r )                                        (89)
                                                          dr


                       such that the presence of f (r ) would induce the size of the Schwarzschild radius not to
                       be reduced.
                            The discussion of the denominator of Equation (80) is this way assured.
                            The further important implications from the non-vanishing of the denominator in
                       Equation (80) are examined in the subsequent work of the Author.
                            At the present stage of the investigations, one notices that

                       Proposition 3. the distance D in Equation (80) in the weighted case coincides with the distance
                       calculated in the non-weighted case,

                            Proposition Pz follows directly from the vanishing of the infinitesimal volume growth
                       as proven in [11]. This way, it is possible to open the way for the phenomenological
                       investigations of soliton phenomenology from the experimental evidence.

                       13. Solitons with Time-Dependent Weights
                            It is now my aim to examine the flow

                                                        ∂
                                                           gµν (t) = −2Rµν [ grhoσ (t)]                                        (90)
                                                        ∂t
                       with t0 being the initial data of the manifold, and t1 being the extremum of the time interval
                       of validity of the flow equation Equation (90), when the weight functions depends on the
                       time coordinate variable, because

                       Theorem 24. The time coordinate variable coincides now with the time conformal variable.

                       Proof of Theorem 24. After the vanishing of the infinitesimal volume growth.

                            This way, one studied the case S ≡ 0 under the flow with

                                                           gµν (t) → e−2 f (t) gµν .                                           (91)

                       From the requirement r ≡ 0, with r being the mean curvature, one has that

                                                                        t  1
                                                          f (t) ≡ ln      + ( t − t1 )                                         (92)
                                                                       t1  t0

                       where t0 is the taken from the initial data of the manifold, and t1 is the extremum of the
                       validity of the flow Equation (90).
                            The metric tensor is therefore spelled as
                                                                                             t
                                                                                 −2 tt 2 t1
                                                       gµν (t) ≡ (t1−2 + t2 )e       0   e       0   .                         (93)

                       From the requirement Rtt ≡ 0 and from the further requirement Rtr ≡ 0, one learns that
                       f ≡ const.




                                                                                             https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                              21 of 33



                            The particular solution f ≡ 0 is identically required for static spherically symmetric
                       nonrotating black hole spacetimes with Rtr ≡ 0. The Schwarzschild vacuum case is
                       an example.

                       14. Discussion
                             It is the aim of the present section to discuss the framing of the found results within
                       the previously known items, after which the outlook is introduced.
                             The functional dependence of the weight functions on the coordinate variables is now
                       commented on from [28–31].
                             In [28], curvature estimates in the cases of complete gradient shrinking Ricci solitons
                       are written, after the application of the Lopez–Rio rigidity, which is in the present context
                       questioned.
                             In [29], factor manifolds of a doubly warped product manifold are utilised for Ricci–
                       Bourguignon solitons; the existence of a conformal vector field in this case is controlled as
                       follows: the Hamilton paradigm of inscribing the Ricci solitons as fixed points of a Ricci
                       flow is ibidem revised.
                             In the work [31], the compact case is studied for shrinking Ricci solitons, in the case
                       a local bound on the Riemann tensor is modified; it is momentous to comment that any
                       bounds on the Riemann tensor is found after the isoperimetic inequalities, to which the
                       study of the vanishing volume growth under the rotational ansatz must be applied.
                             In [32], the result is discussed from [33] that a modification of the Ricci flow would
                       introduce a constraint on the scalar curvature; it is my aim to start discarding this result
                       after the proof that the infinitesimal volume growth under the rotational ansatz is vanishing
                       after the Ricci flow is reconciled with the EFEs. As a result, a modification of the Ricci
                       flow is therefore proven to be the introduction of rotating-like perturbations which modify
                       the Rtr .
                             The motivations to start with studying the spherical weight functions after the present
                       analysis are, indeed, as follows. It is important to recall that the metrisation would imply
                       the ispoperimetric inequalities and the curvature estimates are majorised after (possibly, a
                       sum of) the existing ones from the spherically symmetric weights. It is a new perspective
                       to notice that, from [34], the geodesics paths are studied after ṫ ≡ 0, which defines the
                       reference frame of the photon; the description is due to the calculation of the t-component
                       of the 4-momenta in the Euler–Lagrange approach. From [34], the notation of the weight
                       field is newly introduced; the interrogations from [13] are further studied.
                             From [35], the rigidity is studied in the generalized-weights case, as well to answer
                       the interrogations from [35] about the (an-)harmonicity of the Weyl tensor. It is relevant to
                       stress that the Lagrangian approach in spherical symmetry, i.e., as the one proposed in [34],
                       implies the spherical symmetry of the weight functions, whose further corresponding
                       results are presented in the subsequent work of the Author.
                             It is within the purpose of the present work to recall from [14] that the gradient-
                       steady Schwarzschild Ricci–Kaehler solitons are proven to be connected at infinity; it is
                       straightforward to prove that the steady Schwarzschild–Ricci–Kaehler soliton is unique. In
                       the case of complete gradient shrinking Ricci solitons [13], application is due to smooth
                       metric spaces with bounded Bakry–Emery curvature; from the Perelmann approach, the
                       weights are determined for the initial conditions. Further applications of this corollary will
                       be explored in future work.
                             From [36], the position holds that, for generalized weights, the Euler–Lagrange equation

                                                           ∂L
                                                               = −r2 ϕ̇2 ≡ const                                     (94)
                                                           ∂ϕ̇




                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                              22 of 33



                       holds as constant. It is therefore possible to open the way to the study of experimental
                       evidence of vacuum spacetimes, of homogeneous-distribution matter spacetimes, and of
                       nonhomogeneous-distribution spacetimes.
                            The study of [29] is motivated after the study of [30]; in [30], the phenomenology
                       of doubly warped spacetimes is proposed. It is my aim to continue the study of the
                       phenomenology of solitons after [12] as follows.
                            It is straightforward to prove that the desired conformal vector field of the Ricci–
                       Bourguignon solitons is one written after the 4-velocity vector field.
                            It is my further aim to study the generalized-weights functions of the Ricci–
                       Bourguignon solitons after the 4-velocity in the Euler–Lagrange approach.
                            According to the found results, the Lopez–Rio rigidity is discarded because of the
                       new study of the Weyl tensor; indeed, the construction of harmonic functions from [28] is
                       upgraded in the case of the weight fields.
                            From the reasoning from [28], in [37], the complete gradient shrinking Ricci solitons
                       are described as ’generally asymptotic to a cone over a spherical space form’; this result is
                       now discarded, as it is proven that the complete gradient shrinking Ricci solitons live on
                       the GR weighted pseudo-spherical cylinder.
                            Moreover, the inequalities from [32] are to be upgraded.

                       15. Outlook
                            The present work is aimed at studying the newly found correspondence between the
                       reconciliations of the Yamabe flow with the EFEs and those of the Birkhoff Theorems, which
                       are newly applied to the metrised weighted manifolds with the newly found implications
                       of the Myers Theorems in GR. The impositions of the umbilicity conditions are newly
                       appreciated as far as the definitions of the diverse curvatures are concerned in GR.
                            The particular cases of the Schwarzschild weighted metrised solitons and those of
                       the Generalized-Schwarzschild weighted metrised solitons are taken into account as key
                       instances, as they are proven to be realized on inequivalent manifolds, on which the
                       requirements of the rotational ansatz implies the definition of the new hypersurfaces [36].
                            In the present paper, the metrisation of the weighted solitons newly allows one to prove
                       the behaviour of the gravitational potentials under the rotational ansatz; the found variety
                       of rescalings completes the introductory work of Brendle about non-metrised solitons.
                            Moreover, and possibly, more importantly, the implications from the application of
                       the umbilicity conditions on the GR-reconciled Yamabe flows in [36] is proven ibidem to
                       define new two-dimensional hypersurfaces issued as living on graph manifolds, which are
                       the isoclines of the potentials. These behaviours are proven after the construction of the
                       potentials directly from the Christoffel symbols, i.e., after considering the transformations
                       induced after Equation (1). The study of the action of the pullbacks of the metric tensors is
                       newly found to be one unique pullback, after which the Riemannian submersion is proven
                       to be confluent to a Riemannian immersion, as

                       Theorem 25. The uniqueness of the action pullback of the metric tensor of Schwarzschild solitons
                       after submersion holds both in the compact case and in the noncompact ones on weighted manifolds.

                       Proof of Theorem 25. These solitons live on the pseudo-spherical cylinder.

                       Theorem 26. The noncompact cases are proven in one unique noncompact instance when
                       Schwarzschild solitons are considered.

                       Proof of Theorem 26. By construction, the weighted pseudo-spherical cylinder is unique
                       in GR due to the uniqueness of the position (concurrent) vector (field) and to that of Levi-



                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                              23 of 33



                       Civita connections, which reduce in the present case to the newly calculated Christoffel
                       symbols. The Levi-Civita connection is unique in GR. The noncompact case is defined on
                       the weighted pseudo-spherical cylinder.

                       Theorem 27. The noncompact cases of Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons are well-posed in GR.

                       Proof of Theorem 27. The Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons are defined on the weighted
                       pseudo-spherical cylinders, whose metrisation is achieved after the prescriptions of the
                       new behaviours found for the Generalized-Schwarzschild gravitational potentials.

                       Theorem 28. The weighted metrised pseudo-spherical cylinders are geodesically complete. □

                       Theorem 29. The uniqueness of the action pullback of the metric tensor of Generalized-
                       Schwarzschild solitons after submersion holds both in the compact case and in the noncompact ones
                       on the weighted manifolds.

                       Proof of Theorem 29. By construction, the Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons live on the
                       metrised weighted pseudo-spherical cylinders in GR; these pseudo-spherical cylinders are
                       endowed with the weights which obey the prescriptions presented in the present work.

                       Theorem 30. The conditions found for the Christoffel symbols imply the Birkhoff Theorem(s)

                            As one result,

                       Theorem 31. The GR curvatures observe the Yamabe flow reconciled with the EFEs because the
                       EFEs are reconciled with the requirements on the Christoffel symbols, which are unique in GR.

                            As a consequence, the imposition of the behaviours of the Christoffel symbols allows
                       one to impose compliance with the EFEs, even though the systems of differential equations
                       are highly non-linear.
                            As a further result,

                       Theorem 32. The Perelman diffeomorphism of the 4-position 4-vector is implied after the potential
                       satisfies the conditions found for the Christoffel connections.

                       Proof of Theorem 32. The two-dimensional manifolds isoclines of the potentials are de-
                       fined on the weighted metrised pseudo-spherical cylinders, which are geodesically
                       complete.

                           I remark here that the topic of Cauchy completeness was not utilised in the present
                       framework. It is nevertheless my aim to further explore the new structures found after the
                       implementations of the consequences of the features of Cauchy surfaces.

                       Remarks About the Use of the Umbilicity Conditions on Noncompact Surfaces
                            It is now my aim to investigate the imposition of the umbilicity conditions on noncom-
                       pact surfaces which are GR manifolds which obey the EFEs.

                       Theorem 33. The Schwarzschild solitons on the weighted pseudo-spherical cylinder have vanishing
                       sectional curvature.

                       Proof of Theorem 33. The vanishing of the Ricci curvature is ensured for the weighted
                       Schwarzschild solitons; the vanishing of the corresponding sectional curvature follows




                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                                   24 of 33



                                    from it. They have vanishing constant mean curvature according to the new implications
                                    of the Myers Theorem and are therefore totally umbilical.

                                        Furthermore, the Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons in the weighted case are anal-
                                    ysed as follows.

                                    Theorem 34. The Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons are on manifolds (the weighted GR pseudo-
                                    spherical cylinders) which are hyperbolic; therefore, all the points are stable.

                                    Proof of Theorem 34. The GR weighted pseudo-spherical cylinders are geodesically
                                    complete.

                                          Moreover,

                                    Remark 14. The Ricci curvature of the weighted Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons is positive
                                    definite, and it coincides with the Myers mean curvature in weighted manifolds which obey the EFEs.

                                         Accordingly, it is possible to study the graph manifolds after Riemannian unique
                                    Riemannian submersions, which are obtained for the ambient space in which the isoclines
                                    of the potentials live, as studied in the present work. I now stress that the notions hereby
                                    newly established are of interest to be applied to [3,38–47].

                                    Funding: This research received no external funding.

                                    Data Availability Statement: No new data were created or analyzed in this study. Data sharing is
                                    not applicable to this article.

                                    Conflicts of Interest: The author declares no conflicts of interest.

                                    Appendix A. Geometrical Objects of the Parametric-Time-Dependent-
                                    Weights-Functions Rescaled-Schwarzschild Spacetimes
                                        The infinitesimal line element considered here for the parametric-time-dependent-
                                    weights-functions Rescaled-Schwarzschild spacetimes is determined as
                                                   r                   1
                 ds2 = gµν dx µ dx ν = e−2 f (t) 1 − S dt2 − e−2 f (t)         − e−2 f (t) r2 dθ 2 − e−2 f (t) r2 (cos θ )2 dϕ2 .        (A1)
                                                     r                 1 − rrS
                                    The non-vanishing Christoffel symbols are written in this case as


                                                                                    df
                                                                            Γttt = −   ,                                                (A2a)
                                                                                    dt
                                                                             t    1 rS
                                                                            Γrt =           ≡ Γttr ,                                   (A2b)
                                                                                  2 r − rS
                                                                             t            r2         df
                                                                            Γrr =−               2
                                                                                                        ,                               (A2c)
                                                                                    (r − r − S) dt
                                                                                          r3 d f
                                                                            Γtθθ = −              ,                                    (A2d)
                                                                                        r − rS dt
                                                                            Γtϕϕ ≡ (cos θ )2 Γtθθ ,                                     (A2e)
                                                                                     1 rS
                                                                            Γrtt =        (r − r S ),                                   (A2f)
                                                                                     2 r3




                                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                                        25 of 33




                                                                                   df
                                                                          Γrtr = −     ,                                                    (A2g)
                                                                                   dt
                                                                                   1      rS
                                                                          Γrrr = −                ,                                         (A2h)
                                                                                   2 r (r − r S )
                                                                          Γrθθ = −(r − rS ),                                                 (A2i)
                                                                                  df
                                                                          Γθtθ = − ,                                                         (A2j)
                                                                                  dt
                                                                                  df
                                                                          Γtϕ = − ,
                                                                            ϕ
                                                                                                                                            (A2k)
                                                                                  dt
                                                                          Γθϕϕ = −(sin θ )(cos θ ),                                          (A2l)
                                                                                1
                                                                          Γrϕ =
                                                                           ϕ
                                                                                  ,                                                         (A2m)
                                                                                r
                                                                                cos θ
                                                                          Γϕθ =
                                                                           ϕ
                                                                                                                                            (A2n)
                                                                                sin θ
                                                                                   df
                                                                          Γtϕ = − ,
                                                                           ϕ
                                                                                                                                            (A2o)
                                                                                    dt
                                                                                1
                                                                          Γrϕ = .
                                                                           ϕ
                                                                                                                                            (A2p)
                                                                                r
                                   The non-vanishing components of the Ricci tensor are now examined as

                                                                          df
                                                                Rtt = −3       ,                                                             (A3a)
                                                                          dt2
                                                                      r      1 df
                                                                Rtr = S                ≡ Rrt ,                                              (A3b)
                                                                       r r − rS dt
                                                                                      "          2 #
                                                                             r2           d2 f     df
                                                                Rrr = −             2
                                                                                        − 2 +2          ,                                    (A3c)
                                                                         (r − r S )        dt      dt
                                                                                 "              2 #
                                                                            r3         d2 f     df
                                                                Rθθ = −             − 2 +2            ,                                     (A3d)
                                                                         r − rS        dt       dt
                                                                Rϕϕ = (cos θ )2 Rθθ .                                                        (A3e)

                                   The Ricci scalar is written as
                                                                                              "        2           #
                                                                                 r                 df         d2 f
                                                                R = 6 −2 f ( t )                             − 2                              (A4)
                                                                     e           (r − r S )        dt         dt

                                   Appendix B. Geometrical Objects of the Radial-Variable-Dependent-
                                   Weights-Functions Rescaled-Schwarzschild Spacetimes
                                       The infinitesimal line element of the spherical-weights-functions Rescaled-
                                   Schwarzschild spacetimes is considered as
                                                     r                    1
                 ds2 = gµν dx µ dx ν ≡ e−2 f (r) 1 − S dt2 − e−2 f (r)           − e−2 f ()r r2 dθ 2 − e−2 f (r) r2 (cos θ )2 dϕ2 .  (A5)
                                                       r                1 − rrS

                                    gtt ≡ e−2 f (r) 1 − rrS
                                                            

                                         The non-vanishing Christoffel symbols of the spherical-weights-functions Rescaled-
                                    Schwarzschild spacetimes are now spelled out as
                                                                                                           
                                                               t      1       1                     df               t
                                                              Γtr = −                  2r (r − ro )    − rS ≡ Γrt      ,            (A6a)
                                                                      2 r (r − r S )                dr




                                                                                                             https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                               26 of 33




                                                                                                   
                                                                      1 1                  df
                                                              Γrtt = − 3     2r (r − ro )     − rS ,                               (A6b)
                                                                      2r                   dr
                                                                                                          
                                                               r      1      1                      df
                                                              Γrr = −                  2r (r − ro )    − rS ,                       (A6c)
                                                                      2 r (r − r S )                dr

                                  Appendix C. Geometrical Objects of the Spherical-Weights-Functions
                                  Rescaled-Generalized-Schwarzschild Spacetimes
                                      The infinitesimal line element is here considered for the spherical-weights-functions
                                  Rescaled-Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes as
                                               r                      1
             ds2 = gµν dx µ dx ν ≡ e−2 f (r) 1 − S + Φ(r ) dt2 −     rS         dr2 − r2 θ 2 − r2 dθ 2 − r2 (sin θ )2 dϕ2 .          (A7)
                                                 r               1 − r + Φ (r )
                                      The non-vanishing Christoffel symbols of the spherical-weights-functions Rescaled-
                                  Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes are now spelled out as
                                                                                                        
                                                 t       11        1         df                   dΦ         t
                                                Γrt =−                     2r (rΦ + r − rS ) − r2    − rS ≡ Γrt ,                   (A8a)
                                                         2 r r − rS + rΦ     dr                   dr
                                                                                             
                                                         1 1     df                  dΦ
                                                Γrtt = − 3 2r (rΦ + r − rS ) − r2        − rS ,                                    (A8b)
                                                         2r       dr                 dr
                                                                               
                                                                          df
                                                Γrθθ = [rΦ + r − rS ] · r    −1 ,                                                   (A8c)
                                                                          dr
                                                Γrϕϕ = (sin θ )2 Γrθθ ,                                                            (A8d)
                                                                       
                                                          1 df
                                                Γrθ = −
                                                  θ
                                                              r     −1 ,                                                            (A8e)
                                                          r     dr
                                                       cos θ
                                                Γϕθ =
                                                  ϕ
                                                              ,                                                                     (A8f)
                                                       sin θ
                                                Γθθϕ ≡ Γθθϕ .                                                                      (A8g)

                                  Appendix D. Geometrical Objects of the Schwarzschild Spacetimes
                                       The geometrical objects of the Schwarzschild spacetimes of infinitesimal line element
                                  ds2 written after the metric tensor gµν is spelled as
                                                                     r         1
                                             ds2 = gµν dx µ dx ν ≡ 1 − S dt2 −         dr2 − r2 dθ 2 − r2 (sin θ )2 dϕ2 .            (A9)
                                                                       r       1 − rrS

                                  The non-vanishing Christoffel symbols are recalled to be written as

                                                                        t     1      rS
                                                                       Γrt =                 ≡ Γttr ,                             (A10a)
                                                                              2 r (r − r S )
                                                                              1 rs
                                                                       Γrtt =      (r − r S ),                                    (A10b)
                                                                              2 r3
                                                                       Γrθθ = rS − r,                                             (A10c)
                                                                       Γrϕϕ = (sin θ )2 Γrθθ ,                                    (A10d)
                                                                              1
                                                                       Γrθ
                                                                        θ
                                                                           =    ,                                                 (A10e)
                                                                              r
                                                                       Γθϕϕ = −(sin θ )(cos θ ),                                   (A10f)
                                                                              1
                                                                       Γrϕ =    (sin θ )2 ,
                                                                         ϕ
                                                                                                                                  (A10g)
                                                                              r
                                                                              cos θ
                                                                       Γθθϕ =       .                                             (A10h)
                                                                              sin θ



                                                                                                    https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                                     27 of 33



                                    Appendix E. Geometrical Objects of Schwarzschild Solitons with
                                    Weighted Generic-Spherically Symmetric Rescalings
                                        Geometrical objects of Schwarzschild solitons with weighted generic spherically sym-
                                    metric rescalings of the metric
                                             r                     1
         ds2 = gµν dx µ dx ν = e−2 f (r,t) 1 − S dt2 − e−2 f (r,t)         dr2 − e−2 f (r,t) r2 dθ 2 − e−2 f (r,t) r2 (sin θ )2 dϕ2       (A11)
                                               r                   1 − rrS
                                    are here newly investigated.
                                         The pertinent non-vanishing Christoffel symbols are written as

                                                                ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γttt = −           ,                                                            (A12a)
                                                                    ∂t                                                 
                                                                1       1           2 ∂ f (r, t )        ∂ f (r, t)
                                                         t
                                                        Γtr = −                  2r               + 2rrS            − rS ≡ Γttr ,       (A12b)
                                                                2 r (r − r S )            ∂r                 ∂r
                                                         t             r2    ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γrr =−                          ,                                               (A12c)
                                                                   (r − rS )2 ∂t
                                                                     r3 ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γtθθ = −                   ,                                                    (A12d)
                                                                   r − rS ∂t
                                                        Γtϕϕ = (sin θ )2 Γtθθ ,                                                         (A12e)
                                                                 ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γrrt = −            ,                                                            (A12f)
                                                                     ∂t                                                
                                                                 1       1             ∂ f (r, t)        ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γrrr = −                   2r2            − 2rrS            + rS ,              (A12g)
                                                                 2 r (r − r S )            ∂r                ∂r
                                                                                             
                                                                              ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γrθθ = (r − rS ) r               −1 ,                                           (A12h)
                                                                                  ∂r
                                                        Γrϕϕ = (sin θ )2 Γrθθ ,                                                          (A12i)
                                                              ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γθtθ = −         ,                                                               (A12j)
                                                                ∂r          
                                                              1 ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γrθ
                                                         θ
                                                            =− r           −1 ,                                                         (A12k)
                                                              r        ∂r
                                                        Γθϕϕ = −(sin θ )(cos θ ),                                                        (A12l)
                                                                 ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γtϕ = −
                                                         ϕ
                                                                            ,                                                          (A12m)
                                                                   ∂t          
                                                                 1 ∂ f (r, t)
                                                        Γrϕ = − r
                                                          ϕ
                                                                              −1 ,                                                      (A12n)
                                                                 r        ∂r
                                                               cos  θ
                                                        Γθϕθ =        .                                                                 (A12o)
                                                               sin θ

                                    Appendix F. Geometrical Objects of Coordinate-Time Dependent
                                    Weight Functions
                                          The rescaled infinitesimal line element is now studied
                                                 r                   1
               ds2 = gµν dx µ dx ν = e−2 f (t) 1 − S dt2 − e−2 f (t)         dr2 − e−2 f (t) r2 dθ 2 − e−2 f (t) r2 (sin θ )2 dϕ2 .       (A13)
                                                   r                 1 − rrS

                                    The Ricci tensor is written as




                                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                        28 of 33




                                                               df
                                                     Rtt = −3       ,                                                      (A14a)
                                                               f t2
                                                                   r      1 df
                                                     Rtr ≡ rrt = S              ,                                          (A14b)
                                                                    r r − rS dt
                                                                          "          #
                                                                  r2        d f 2 d2 f
                                                     Rrr = −                      − 2 ,                                    (A14c)
                                                              (r − r s )2    dt    dt
                                                                         "         2         #
                                                                  r3           df         d2 f
                                                        Rθθ = −                          − 2 ,                             (A14d)
                                                                r − rS         dt         dt
                                                        Rϕϕ = (sinθ )2 Rθθ .                                               (A14e)

                       The Ricci scalar is written as
                                                                             "        2         #
                                                                 r                df         d2 f
                                                     R = 6 −2 f                             − 2 .                            (A15)
                                                          e     (r − r S )        dt         dt

                       Appendix G. Control of the Yamabe Flow on Pseudo-Riemannian
                       Manifolds
                           In the present appendix, the existence and the uniqueness of the Yamabe flow on
                       pseudo-Riemannian manifolds are proven.

                       Appendix G.1. Introductory Theorems for the Control
                            Theorem 7 is now applied. Now, one has that

                       Theorem A1. The comparison of the solutions from Theorems 3, 4, and 7 holds at all times in the
                       case of Schwarzschild solitons.

                       Proof of Theorem A1. The sectional curvature in the Schwarzschild case is vanishing.

                            The Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons are now analysed as

                       Theorem A2. The section curvature SGS is calculated after the constant δ0 with δ0 as small as
                       desired in the limit t → ∞.

                            Thus,

                       Theorem A3. The non-vanishing components of the Ricci tensor are majorised with non-vanishing
                       constants, which may be chosen to be as small as desired and which must obey the required limit; the
                       information shows that the Ricci curvature is also bounded after Theorem 3, Theorems A4–A6 as

                                                                 0 ≤ RGS ≤ R0GS                                              (A16)

                       with R0GS as small as desired from δ0 .

                       Proof of Theorem A3. Because of completeness.

                            It is momentous to establish that

                       Theorem A4. The sectional curvature of the metrised weighted Schwarzschild Yamabe solitons (in
                       vacuum) is vanishing.



                                                                                             https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                               29 of 33



                       Proof of Theorem A4. The sectional curvature is calculated from the sum of the sectional
                       curvatures from the Ricci scalar, where these sectional curvatures are calculated from a
                       chosen orthonormal basis.

                            Furthermore,

                       Theorem A5. The sectional curvature of the metrised weighted Generalized-Schwarzschild Yamabe
                       solitons is vanishing in the limit r → ∞.

                       Proof of Theorem A5. Because of the Birkhoff Theorem.

                            This way, one has that

                       Theorem A6. The sectional curvature of the metrised weighted Generalized-Schwarzschild Yamabe
                       solitons is vanishing in the limit everywhere.

                       Proof of Theorem A6. The Ricci curvature is the sum of the sectional curvatures of the
                       2-dimensional geodesics planes, which are now calculated after Theorem A2.

                            With the choice of orientation of the time direction as the 4-velocity being positive in
                       the infalling direction with respect to the black hole object, then

                       Axiom A1. The physical Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons are those whose initial conditions put
                       the D0 GS beyond the fictitious singularity.

                             The relevance of the study of the implications of the umbilicity conditions is therefore
                       clarified.
                             It is now of high relevance to study the implications of Axiom A1.

                       Remark A1. From Axiom A1, the physical Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons are newly found;
                       in particular, Axiom A1 allows one to decide the initial conditions of the new isocline manifolds
                       found in the present paper, which are therefore newly proven to be defined on a non-null set.

                            In this manner, further specifications are gained, according to which

                       Theorem A7. The Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes obey the Birkhoff Theorem.

                       Theorem A8. The Birkhoff Theorem is obeyed after the Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes
                       in a non-trivial manner, i.e., the initial conditions of the generalized manifolds are defined on a
                       non-null set.

                            It is now possible to state that

                       Axiom A2. The Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes are endowed with exactly one fictitious
                       horizon singularity. □

                            The following Theorem is now directly descended from Axiom A2

                       Theorem A9. The modifications of the Schwarzschild radius in the Generalized-Schwarzschild
                       spacetimes are determined by the initial conditions for the manifold.

                            There follows that




                                                                                    https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                 30 of 33



                       Remark A2. The modifications to the Schwarzschild radius in the Generalized-Schwarzschild
                       solitons is of geometrical origin (i.e., it is written on the left-hand side of the EFEs).

                            In more detail, one notices that all the (mathematically well-posed) modifications of
                       the Schwarzschild radius are after the present paradigms not due to the presence of any
                       matter fields.
                            Form the study of Theorem A9, it is possible to obtain all the information about
                       the Generalized-Schwarzschild fictitious singularity. The implications of Axiom S4a are
                       controlled as follows.

                       Appendix G.2. Control
                            The choice of pseudo-Riemannian manifolds is dictated by the choice to apply the
                       Yamabe flow in General Relativity Theory, in which the distances are pseudo-Riemannian
                       with the Lorentzian metric.

                       Appendix G.3. Parabolicity of the Flow Equations
                            From the work [48], the parabolicity of the flow equations is controlled in the present
                       case after adapting Theorem 1.1 from ibidem (which is, in turn, taken from Theorem 1.3
                       from [49]) to the present case and after developing the following paradigm.
                            One has that Theorem 1.2 from [48] is now newly discarded, and it is substituted by

                       Theorem A10. Let (Mn , f , g) be a nontrivial complete gradient Yamabe soliton after metrisation
                       with scalar curvature R ≥ 0; this way, the soliton is isometric to the Riemannian product (R, dr2 ) ×
                       ( N n−1 , ḡ), where M contains N n−1 , a Riemannian manifold with metric ḡ.

                            After which

                       Theorem A11. Let (Mn , g, f ) be a nontrivial complete gradient Yamabe soliton; then, | ∇ g | 2 ≡
                       const on a ’regular level surface’ f ≡ const of f .

                            In more detail,

                       Theorem A12. The requirement | ∇ g |2 ≡ const is reduced to the description ∇2 f = 0.

                            This way,

                       Theorem A13. The scalar curvature of the metrised surface N n−1 is studied to be constant on the
                       level surfaces f ≡ const of M.

                            It is my aim to stress that the implications of the study of the regular level surfaces
                       f = const is addressed in the subsequent work of the Author.
                            The result is to be studied for S of M.
                            Thus, one has that in Theorem A11 the surfaces | ∇ f | 2 are studied; in the preset paper,
                       the study is reconducted to the study of the surfaces ∇2 f ≡ 0, which are a special case of
                       the ∇2 f = const configuration, whose solution is unique and determines the Schwarzschild
                       solitons and the Generalized-Schwarzschild ones.
                            This way,

                       Theorem A14. The flow equations of the noncompact Yamabe solitons are strictly parabolic.

                       Proof of Theorem A14. The surfaces ∇2 f = 0 are rotationally invariant; furthermore, the
                       surfaces ∇2 f = const obey the rotational ansatz after the use of the EFEs.


                                                                                      https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                        31 of 33



                                 Appendix G.4. Proofs of Existence and of Convergence of the Yamabe Flow in the Noncompact Case
                                       The existence and the convergence of the Yamabe flow in the noncompact case is
                                 further controlled.
                                       Moreover, the uniqueness of the Yamabe flow is also newly ensured to be holding
                                 after Theorem A14. Indeed, from [48], the levels f = const are studied; here, the following
                                 is stated.

                                 Theorem A15. The flow of noncompact Yamabe solitons exists.

                                 Proof of Theorem A15. The EFEs are reconciled with the Ricci flow after the applications
                                 of the rotational ansatz for the determination of f ’s.

                                 Theorem A16. The Yamabe flow of noncompact pseudo-Riemannian noncompact solitons is unique.

                                 Proof of Theorem A16. It is sufficient to study the metrised Yamabe solitons on each level
                                 f = const. The levels f = const are particular solutions of | ∇ f | 2 = const which reduce to
                                 ∇2 f = 0 in the present case.

                                 Appendix G.5. Applications of the Paradigms
                                       From theorems implying Theorem 1.3 from [49], which is also reported as Theorem
                                 1.1 from [48], one has that

                                 Theorem A17. Every complete locally conformally flat gradient Yamabe soliton endowed with
                                 positive sectional curvature S > 0 is rotationally invariant.

                                      In this manner, one has that

                                 Theorem A18. The Generalized Schwarzschild solitons are rotationally symmetric.

                                 Proof of Theorem A16. After the umbilicity condition.

                                       It is remarked that eternal solutions of the Yamabe flow will be studied after [49] (i.e.,
                                 after Proposition 1.4 from ibidem, as well as from the definition of Z ( g, X ) the Harnack ex-
                                 pression of the eternal Yamabe flow, which is taken, in turn, from [14]) in subsequent work.
                                       It is worth noticing that the role of the mean curvature in the flow of gradient solitons
                                 is framed more globally after inscribing the present analysis after the investigation lines
                                 from [6,50,51].

References
1.    Yamabe, H. On a deformation of Riemannian structures on compact manifolds. Osaka Math. J. 1960, 12, 21–37.
2.    Alías, L.J.; Romero, A.; Sánchez, M. Uniqueness of complete spacelike hypersurfaces of constant mean curvature in generalized
      Robertson-Walker spacetimes. Gen. Relativ. Gravit. 1995, 27, 71–84. [CrossRef]
3.    Pelegrín, J.A.S. Constant Mean Curvature Spacelike Hypersurfaces in Generalized Robertson-Walker Spacetimes. Proccedings of
      IX International Meeting on Lorentzian Geometry. Available online: https://digibuo.uniovi.es/dspace/handle/10651/59102
      (accessed on 30 March 2026).
4.    Chen, B.-L. Strong uniqueness of the Ricci flow. J. Differ. Geom. 2009, 82, 363–382. [CrossRef]
5.    Wu, J.-Y. On a class of complete non-compact gradient Yamabe solitons. Bull. Korean Math. Soc. 2011, 55, 851–863
6.    Zhang, Z.-H. On the completeness of gradient Ricci solitons. Proc. Am. Math. Soc. 2009, 137, 2755–2759. [CrossRef]
7.    Landau, E.M.; Lifshitz, L.D. Theoretical Physics Course Volume 2; Pergamon Press: London, UK, 1971.
8.    Myers, S.B. Riemannian manifolds with positive mean curvature. Duke Math. J. 1941, 8, 401–404. [CrossRef]
9.    Lecian, O.M. Geodesics Completeness and Cauchy Hypersurfaces of Ricci Solitons on Pseudo-Riemannian Hypersurfaces at the
      Fictitious Singularity: Schwarzschild-Soliton Geometries and Generalized-Schwarzschild-Soliton Ones. Axioms 2025, 14, 896.
      [CrossRef]



                                                                                             https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                          32 of 33



10.   Lecian, O.M. About Uniqueness of Steady Ricci Schwarzschild Solitons. Axioms 2025, 14, 770. [CrossRef]
11.   Lecian, O.M. New Geodesics 2-Planes (Noncompact) Solitons Connected at Infinity; Researchgate: Berlin, Germany, 2026.
12.   Lecian, O.M. The new Generalized Schwarzschild-spacetimes trivial Ricci solitons and the new smooth metric space. J. Applied-
      Math 2025, 3, 2901 [CrossRef] [PubMed] .
13.   Lecian, O.M. The New Generalized Schwarzschild-Spacetimes Complete Gradient Ricci Solitons and the New Smooth Metric Space;
      Researchgate: Berlin, Germany, 2025. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
14.   Chow, B. The Yamabe flow on locally conformally flat manifolds with positive Ricci curvature. Commun. Pure Appl. Math. 1992,
      45, 1003–1014.
15.   Schoen, R. Conformal deformation of a Riemannian metric to constant scalar curvature. J. Differ. Geom. 1984, 20, 479–495.
      [CrossRef]
16.   Brendle, S. Convergence of the Yamabe flow for arbitrary initial energy. J. Differ. Geom. 2005, 69, 217–278. [CrossRef]
17.   Ye, R. Global existence and convergence of the Yamabe flow. J. Differ. Geom. 1994, 39, 35–50. [CrossRef]
18.   Ye, R. The Yamabe flow on locally conformally flat manifolds with positive Ricci curvature. Commun. Pure Appl. Math. 1993,
      46, 35–50. [CrossRef]
19.   Synge, J.L. On the neighborhood of a geodesic in Riemannian space. Duke Math. J. 1935, 1, 527.
20.   Hopf, H.; Rinow, W. Ueber den Begriff der vollstaendigen differentialgeometrischen Flaeche. Comment. Math. Helv. 1931,
      3, 209–225. [CrossRef]
21.   Myers, S.B. Riemannian manifolds in the large. Duke J. 1935, 1, 42–43. [CrossRef]
22.   UNM Departiment of Mathematics and Statistics. Notes 1, Covering Manifolds. Available online: https://share.google/UPA3
      QZlJLjkjoVR4k (accessed on 30 March 2026). [CrossRef]
23.   Hamilton, R. The Ricci flow on surfaces, Mathematics and general relativity. Contemp. Math. 1988, 71, 237–262.
24.   Lecian, O.M. Static Spherically-Symmetric Spacetimes; Lambert Academic Publishing Scia Omniscriptum: Chisinau, Moldova, 2024.
25.   Lecian, O.M. Study of Pseudo-Riemannian Solitons on Complete Manifolds After Umbilicity Conditions; Researchgate: Berlin,
      Germany, 2026.
26.   Lecian, O.M. How to Apply the (Total)-Umbilicity Conditions of Static-Fridman-Robertson-Walker Spacetimesin Vacuum. E
      Scholarly Community Encyclopedia MPDI, Entry ID 59432. 2026. Available online: https://encyclopedia.pub/entry/59432
      (accessed on 30 March 2026).
27.   Calabi, E. Examples of Bernstein problems for some nonlinear equations. Proc. Symp. Pure Appl. Math. 1970, 15, 223–230.
28.   Munteanu, O.; Sesum, N. On gradient Ricci solitons. arXiv 2009, arXiv:0910.1105.
29.   Shenawy, S.; Turki, N.B.; Syied, N.; Mantica, C. Almost Ricci–Bourguignon Solitons on Doubly Warped Product Manifolds.
      Universe 2023, 9, 396. [CrossRef]
30.   Mantica, C.A.; Molinari, L.M. Spherical doubly warped spacetimes for radiating stars and cosmology. Gen. Relativ. Gravit. 2022,
      54, 98. [CrossRef]
31.   Haslhofer, R.; Mueller, R. A Compactness Theorem for Complete Ricci Shrinkers. Geom. Funct. Anal. 2011, 21, 1091–1116.
      [CrossRef]
32.   Chen, B.; Choudhary, M.A.; Nisar, M.; Siddiqi, M.D. Comprehensive Review of Solitonic Inequalities in Riemannian Geometry.
      Int. Electron. J. Geom. 2024, 17, 727–752. [CrossRef]
33.   Fischer, A.E. An introduction to conformal Ricci flow. Class. Quantum Gravity 2004, 21, S171–S218. [CrossRef]
34.   Lecian, O.M. The New Generalized Schwarzschild-Spacetimes Solitons and with Spherically-Symmetric Weights: Geodesics Paths; Re-
      searchgate: Berlin, Germany, 2025. [CrossRef]
35.   Eminenti, M.; Nave, G.L.; Mantegazza, C. Ricci solitons: The equation point of view. Manuscripta Math. 2008, 127, 345–367.
36.   Lecian, O.M. Geodesics Paths of Solitons with Generalized Weights; Researchgte: Berlin, Germany, 2026. [CrossRef]
37.   Munteanu, O.; Wang, J. Structure at infinity for shrinking Ricci solitons. Ann. Sci. L’école Norm. Supér. 2019, 52, 891–925.
38.   Ma, L.; Cheng, L. Yamabe flow and the Myers-type theorem on complete manifolds. arXiv 2014, arXiv:1003.3914. [CrossRef]
39.   Bidabad, B.; Ahmadi, M.Y. On complete Yamabe solitons. Adv. Geom. 2018, 18, 101–104. [CrossRef]
40.   Ma, L.; Miquel, V. Remarks on scalar curvature of Yamabe solitons. Ann. Glob. Anal. Geom. 2012, 42, 195–205 . [CrossRef]
41.   Bidabad, B. On complete Finslerian Yamabe solitons. Differ. Geom. Its Appl. 2019, 66, 52–60 . [CrossRef]
42.   Tadano, H. Some myers type Theorems and some Hitchin-Thorpe inequalities for Shrinking Ricci Solitons. Geom. Struct.
      Riemannian Manifolds 2015, 73/1, 183–199 [CrossRef]
43.   Derdzinski, A. A Myers-type theorem and compact Ricci solitons. Proc. Am. Math. Soc. 2006, 134, 3645–3648.
44.   Florez, M.F.E. The k-Yamabe Flow and Its Solitons, Abstract. Available online: https://www.cmm.uchile.cl/?p=61140 (accessed
      on 30 March 2026). [CrossRef]
45.   Ma, L.; Cheng, L. Properties of complete non-compact Yamabe solitons. Ann. Glob. Anal. Geom. 2011, 40, 379–387.
46.   José, M.M. Senovilla Umbilical-Type Surfaces in Spacetime. In Recent Trends in Lorentzian Geometry; Springer: New York, NY,
      USA, 2012. [CrossRef]



                                                                                               https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
Axioms 2026, 15, 267                                                                                                              33 of 33



47.   Calvaruso, G. On totally umbilical and minimal surfaces of the Lorentzian Heisenberg groups. Math. Nachrichten 2025,
      298, 1922–1942.
48.   Cao, H.-D.; Sun, X.-F.; Zhang, Y.-Y. On the structure of gradient Yamabe solitons. Math. Res. Lett. 2012, 19, 767–774. [CrossRef]
49.   Daskalopoulos, P.; Sesum, N. The classification of locally conformally flat Yamabe solitons. arXiv 2011, arXiv:1104.2242. [CrossRef]
50.   Catino, G.; Mantegazza, C.; Mazzieri, L. A note on the global structure of conformal gradient solitons with nonnegative Ricci
      tensor. Commun. Contemp. Math. 2012, 14, 1250045. [CrossRef]
51.   Huisken, G. Asymptotic behavior for singularities of the mean curvature flow. J. Differ. Geom. 1990, 31, 285–299. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.




                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/axioms15040267
