The eigenvalues of the curvature of
Einsteinian weighted solitons
Sapienza University of Rome,
Rome, Italy.


Key-words:
Pseudo-Riemannian noncompact Ricci solitons; space forms; perfect fluid; geodesics
completeness; Cauchy surface.


Abstract
Solitons whose curvature is an eigenvalue of the curvature operator are proven
to be space forms as they have constant sectional curvature. The results are
here developped as far as weighted Einsteinian meterized solitons are concerned,
which are pseudo-Riemannian, noncompact (i.e., connected at infinity), and
with nonnegative Ricci curvature. As a result, space forms are selected from
the General-Relativistic pseudo-spherical cylinder soliton. The cases of the
Schwarzschild solitons and of Generalized-Schwarzschild solitons are taken into
account.
The geodesics completeness and the existence of the Cauchy surface are studied:
the existence and uniqueness of a Cauchy surface which is smooth and global is
newly proven in the weighted, meterized solitons cases.
The macroscopic matter fields solutions of the Einstein Field Equations are in-
vestigated to be defined on the meterized manifolds, and the properties of the
spacetimes filled with these matters are investigated. The example of the per-
fect fluid without source terms is taken; the equation of state is explained as a
consequence of the geometry, where no external forces and no further matter is
allowed.


1    Introduction
In the work of Boehm et al. [1], the compact nonmeterized solitons of n > 2-
space-dimensional manifolds are considered.
Ibidem, the relevance of the work of Hamilton [2]is recalled, where the intro-
duction of the notion of a Ricci flow is stressed.
In [1], the space curvature is arbitrary space dimensions is written, wile in the
work of Huisken [3] an opened cone is described in the space of curvature oper-
ators.
Form th. 1 from [1], the study is performed of compact manifolds whose (nor-
malized) Ricci flow implies the time evolution of a Riemannian metric tensor,
such that the sectional curvature is constant. In [4], in [2], and in [5], the ana-
logues of th. 1 from [1] are analyzed in n > 5-space-dimensional cases.


                                        1
In [1], the Ricci flow is taken from [6] as
                            ∂R
                               = ∇R + 2(R2 + Rsh )                             (1)
                            ∂t
where Rsh is the Hamilton sharp curvature operator which is a self-adjoint cur-
vature operator for R.
                                                               2
Ibidem, the vector space of curvature operators is studied as SB (so(n)) as ’the
vector space of self-adjoint endomorphisms so(n) which obey the Bianchi iden-
tity.
The invariant curvature condition from [1] is written ibidem on an opportune
           2
subset of SB (so(n)) which admits the invariance

                                 dR
                                    = R2 + Rsh                                 (2)
                                 dt
where Eq. (2) is worked out from Eq. (1) which are here reported form ibidem
such that each point is studied in [1] as contained in the opportune subset C
                                                                          2
chosen in [1]. In th. 2 from [1], particular equivariant linear map of SB   (so(n))
which induces a linear transformation on R the curvature operator is considered
such that the difference of the pullback version of the differential equation from
the original differential equation does not depend on the Weyl curvature where
the pullback is studied as on TP M of the unweighted unmeterized manifold M .
The details of sec. 4 from [1] imply that closed SO(N ) invariant subset of a
                       2
further subset S of SB   (so(n)) when F is O(n) invariant; the analogue theorems
of the Bochler curvature operators are ibidem considered.
I here remark that the subset S from [1] as in the above is the subset after which
the weight functions F and F take values, as in the following Sections of the
present paper.
It is one of the aims of the present work to prove the existence of space forms
selected from non-compact, pseudo-Riemannian weighted meterized solitons.
As tools, the self-adjoint curvature operator is proven to be exist and to be
unique, and, when the Perelman diffeomorphism is considered, it also coincides
with the square of the curvature operator itself: these introductory results hold
also in the non.compact case, i.e. the setting in different from that studied in
[1]. Indeed, unassociatedly from [1], here the Perelman diffeomorphism is the
transformation needed and obtained instead of the self-adjoint endomorphisms
of so(n).
It is my care to stress that Eq. (2) is to be studied in the form
                                 DR
                                    ≡ R2 + rsh                                 (3)
                                 dt
where D the total covariant derivative should be considered, and rsh the self-
adjoint operator of the square of the Myers curvature should be written. There-
fore, Eq. (3) is such that each point in contained on the opportune subset chosen
as C from [1].
Moreover, differently, from [1], I here remark that I here study the action of the


                                         2
pullback on the differential operators.
In the work of Catino [7], the 4-spacetime-dimensional shrinking Ricci unmeter-
ized unweighted solitons (M 4 , gµν ) are classified according to the criterion fol-
lowing an opportune minorization of the sectional curvature S with respect to
                                 1
the Ricci curvature R as S > 24    R being S > 0 ibidem.
Ibidem, the positively-curved unmeterized unweighted shrinking Ricci solitons
is 4-spacetime-dimensional cases are studied as isometric to R4 , or to S4 , or to
RP4 , or to CP2 ; in the present work, the case RP4 is ruled out.
The manifolds with positive sectional curvature are studied ibidem.
In the work of Naber [8], 4-spacedimensional compact shrinking solitons with
bounded, nonnegative curvature operator are classified as splitting into either
R4 , or to S 2 × R2 up to the finite quotients, or to R3 × R with warping metric
tensors; in the present paper, the 4-spacetime-dimensional case is investigated.
In the work of Vieira Gomes et al. [9], complete gradient solitons are investi-
gated in the Ricci cases; the necessary condition of existence and the sufficient
one are studied when the solitons are obtained ’as fibre bundles’ and when the
metric tensor is warping: the quotients of ’isometric groups are analyzed as far
as their actions are concerned.
Ibidem, the meterized solitons are named after the ’gradient Ricci soliton warped
bundles’, for which the new technique to upgrade the warped products on the
bundle is applied, when an integrable horizontal distribution is considered when
the charts of the bundles are isometries.
Differently, in the present paper, the method to study the Cauchy surface is
followed.
In the work of Catino et al. [10], the locally conformally flat Riemannian Ricci
solitons are classified in the compact case according to the properties of the
evolution equation of the Weyl tensor.
In the work of Eminenti et al. [11], the quasi-Einstein manifolds are consedered
and the properties of the form generating the weight function are studied; the
dynamics of the Ricci flow is overlooked as well as the dynamical techinques.
Diversely, in the present paper, the locally conformally flat Ricci solitons on
pseudo-Riemannian manifolds are studied in the noncompact case according to
the properties of the constant sectional curvatures when only one exists and
when it is nonvanishing.
As a result, the two-dimensional surface eigenvalue of the sectional curvature
operator is studied.
The geometrical description is applied when the macroscopic matters which are
solutions of the Einstein Field Equations (EFE’s) are filling the 4-spacetime;
particular attention is paid to the case of the perfect fluid; in Theorem TI8
from the present paper, the perfect fluid is proven to take the velocity fields on
the weighted manifold.
The paper is organized as follows.
In Section 1, the motivation of the main new tools which are needed are intro-
duced.
In Section 2, the further introductory material is presented.



                                         3
2    Introductory material
In the work [13], local coordinates systems are utilised; in the present paper,
local coordinates systems are utilized only for the description of sectional cur-
vatures of planes; differently, the formalism from [12] can be utilised as follows.
The comparison with the work of Catino [7] is now performed.
Gradient shrinking unmeterized unweighted Ricci solitons with positive sec-
tional curvature S where ibidem a function F is looked for which is to obey the
request which is here newly spelled as correcting that from [12] as

                             Rµν + ∇µ ∇ν F = λgµν                              (4)

where, in [7], the addend ∇2 F is looked for.
In the present work, the case
                                    ∇µ F = 0                                   (5)
is studied.
In [7], the case of F as parallel is considered as the necessary condition and the
sufficient one for the Ricci solitons to be Einsteinian solitons.
In the present work, the case is considered when the weight function f is strictly
parallel as
Definition D1:
A function f is strictly parallel when its covariant derivatives are vanishing as

                                    ∇µ f = 0                                   (6)


i.e., such that the term
                                  ∇µ ∇µ f = 0.                                 (7)
The gradient solitons are defined as

                               Rµν = ̺gµν + λgµν ,                             (8)

i.e., after the Hessian matrix Hessµν [f ]g is vanishing when prepared as con-
sidering the covariant derivatives with g µν Hessµν [f ]g must undergo th rota-
tional Ansatz: the Rotational Ansatz implies the rotational invariance when
the newly-meterized weighted manifold M is split as M ≡ R ⊗ N being N the
newly-prepared meterized weighted manifold which is (n − 1)-space-dimensional
and is now newly proven to be SO(n) invariant. In the cases of higher space
dimensions, the N is SO(n) invariant as well as it is proven in Appendix I.
In cor. 1.5 from [13], complete, locally conformally flat, expanding Ricci solitons
with nonnegative curvature operator are studied as rotationally symmetric. It
is the aim of the present investigation to reconcile locally conformal flatness
with rotational symmetry under the Rotational Ansatz applied to solitons with
nonnegative Ricci curvature.
Some of the symmetries of the solitons are studied in [7].



                                        4
3     On local conformal flatness
In the work of Catino et al. [13], locally conformally flat solutions of the Ricci
flow equations are proven to exhibit rotational invariance in n = 3-space dimen-
sions; the sign of the curvature is studied ibidem from the definition of Ricci
flow as
                                ∂
                                   gij(t) = −2rij [g(t)]                       (9)
                                ∂t
for every negative time being rij the Ricci tensor constructed á-la Myers, i.e.,
as after [14].
The solutions are ibidem recalled to be described as a sequence of blowups when
the singular time is approached of the Ricci flow.
From the work of Perelman [15], compact, rotationally symmetric solitons are
formed in 3-space-dimensional case.
In [13], the theorem is stated
Theorem T1:
Any complete ancient solution of the Ricci flow equation Eq. (9)which is lo-
cally conformally flat is rotationally symmetric in n ≥ 4-space-dimensional case,
where the unweighted unmeterized soliton considered is (M n , gµν (t)). 
It is my aim to analyze the consequences of
Theorem T2:
Any complete meterized weighted soliton (M, gµν , f ) is locally conformally flat.

as
Theorem T3:
In n = 4-spacetime dimensions, the spatial part of the soliton (M, gµν , f ) from
Theorem T2 is rotationally symmetric. 
In [10], the behaviour of the Weyl tensor is analyzed where it results as recon-
ciled in [13] with a Riemannian manifold whose Codazzi tensor admits only two
eigenvalues (which are distinct).
The following here newly holds
Theorem T4:
Given the Riemannian meterized weighted soliton (M, gµν , f ), ∃! the eigenvalue
of the Ricci curvature. 
Lemma 1:
Theorem T4 is extended also to pseudo-Riemannian manifolds. 
The Ricci curvature coincides with the Myers curvature, which is calculated
exactly, from which the notion of eigenvalue follows.
The eigenvalues of the Ricci curvature define hypersufaces which are space
forms.


3.1    About space forms
Space forms are studied in [16] and in [17] as manifolds with constant sectional
curvature. Inequalities for closed hypersurfaces as studied in [18].


                                        5
In corollary 1.5 from [13], complete, locally conformally flat, expanding Ricci
solitons are analyzed after the existence of a Killing vector field in n ≥ 4 space
dimensions.
In the present research, the result is given
Theorem T5:
In n = 4-spacetime dimensions, a noncompact pseudo-Riemannian meterized
weighted soliton (M, gµν , f ) is obtained after a conformal Killing vector field.
which implied that
Theorem T6:
The eigenvalue of the curvature soliton (M, gµν , f ) from Theorem T5 is unique.
As a result,
Theorem T7:
The sectional curvature of the soliton (M, gµν , f ) from Theorem T5 is constant.

Accordingly,
Corollary C1:
There exists and is unique the eigenvalue of the curvature of the Schwarzschild
soliton, which is vanishing; the Schwarzschild meterized soliton is one with van-
ishing sectional curvature. 
It is now my duty to study the consequences of Theorem T5.



4    The eigenvectors of the Ricci curvature oper-
     ator
The new results which are needed after the work of Catino [7] are written in the
present Section.
Differently fro th results from [11], the new implications from the following anal-
ysis are reported in Appendix I. Accordingly, the dynamics of the Ricci flow of
the macroscopic matter fields is found to be static, i.e., the dynamics of the
classifications of the geometries from [11] is here discarded.
Gradient shrinking unmeterized unweighted Ricci solitons with positive sec-
tional curvature S are ibidem spelled as a function of F to obey the request

                          Rµν + gµν gρσ ∇ρ ∇σ F = λgµν                        (10)

The case ∇µ F = 0 is considered in the following as Theorem T8:
The weight function F from a strictly parallel vector field as

                                    ∇µ F = 0                                  (11)

is necessary condition and sufficient one for the Ricci solitons to be Einstein
solitons, where the’ strictly parallel weight function’ is newly introduced. The
covariant derivatives are calculated after the Christoffel symbols. 
When the weight function is from a strictly parallel vector field, also one has
that ∇ν ∇µ F = 0.


                                        6
Definition D1:
The gradient solitons are reduced to the definition from

                               Rµν = ̺Rgµν + λgµν                        (12)

after the Hessian matrix ∇µ ∇ν F = 0 is prepared according to the covariant
derivatives.
Einstein manifolds ar eprepared as
Theorem T9:
The Einstein manifolds are written as
                                             R
                                   Rµν =       gµν                       (13)
                                             n
and there exists a parallel vector field X µ ≡ ∇µ f .
Proof T9:
The parallelicity condition
                                     ∇ρ X µ = 0                          (14)
is such that
                       ∇σ ∇ρ X µ − ∇ρ ∇σ X µ = Rµ νσρ X ν ;              (15)
the vanishing of the (covariant with respect to g) Hessian matrix implies Eq.
(13) to be vanishing and therefore

                                    Rνζ X ν ≡ 0                          (16)


In particular, Theorem T9 newly implies also that
Theorem T10:
The four eigenvectors of the Ricci curvature operator are written from
                                  R
                                    (gνζ X ν ) = 0.                      (17)
                                  n

after which one notices that
Remark R1:
The eigenvectors of the Ricci curvature operator from Eq. (17) are realized in
both cases when R = 0 is vanishing, and when R 6= 0.
The implication of Theorems T10 are studied in the Appendix I.
As a consequence, the Einstein Field equations are those realized as
                                               1
                              ∇µ Rµν = 0 =       ∇ν R.                   (18)
                                               2
Theorem T11:
The Hamilton-Perelman conditions are spelled as

                          R + 2∆f − | ∇f | 2 + 2λf = 0                   (19)


                                         7
which are minorized as

                    ∇ν R + 2∇ν ∆f − ∇ν | ∇f | 2 + 2λf = 0                    (20)

from which
                       ∇ν R + 2∇ν ∆f − ∇ν f + 2λf = 0.                       (21)

Thus,
Theorem T12:
The equation governing the soliton is here written as

                                  Rµν = λgµν                                 (22)

with
                               R − 2λc1 = c2 = 0                             (23)
being c1 and c2 the dimensional constants. 
proof T12:
One combines
                             g µν Rµν = λg µν gµν                            (24)
with
                            R+ | ∇f | 2 − 2λf = c2 .                         (25)

As results,
Theorem T13:
The Einsteinian Ricci solitons for which the EFE’s are reconciled with the Ricci
flow and with the Yamabe flow are those for which

                                     f = c1 .                                (26)


Then,
Corollary C3:
The velocities v µ ≡ ∇µ f are calculated after the Christoffel symbols.
The rotational invariance is conserved also for locally conformally flat transfor-
mations of the weights.


5      About 4-velocity as conformal Killing vector
       field
Conformal Killing vector fields are studied in [19] within the Arnowitt-Deser-
Misner (ADM) formalism for manifolds solutions of the EFE’s with initial data
on a spacelike hypersurface.
A conformal Killing vector field is studied as a vector field, for which the Lie
derivative of the metric is vansihing.


                                        8
                 2
The metric e−2f gµν is here considered, of which examples are written in Ap-
pendix SCRIVI, ebing Gµν the metric tensor i.e. from the Schwarzschild mani-
fold or from the Generalized-Schwarzschild manifolds.
As a consequence, the Lie derivative of the metric tensor obey the hypothesis
                                     2
                                            
                            £µV e−2f GM N = 0,                            (27)

from which the chain rule implies
                           2
                                         2
                    £V (e−2f ) GM N + e−2f £V GM N = 0.                       (28)

It is now possible to complete the proof of Theorem T5 from
Proof T4:

    The definition of the 4-velocity field V µ as a conformal one implies
                                            2
                                 £V (e−2f ) = 0                               (29)

From [20] and from [21], one has that
                                   ˜2                 ˜2
                           £V (e−2f ) = (div(v)) e−2f                         (30)

from which the request is here formulated

                            £v gij = −f˜div(V )gij = 0                        (31)

which now implies
                                   div(v) = 0.                                (32)


I have here expressed the new condition that the divergence of the velocity
field v µ is unique and vanishing, which is on a manifold of weight f˜.


6     The vanishing-divergence 4-velocity vectors
The vanishing of the divergence of the 4-velocity vector V µ implies an incom-
pressible flow; the incompressible flow is is the macroscopic matter solutions of
the EFE’s (as from [22]); the motion of the pointlike relativistic test particle is
studied as one in an incompressible fluid.
The Relativistic fluid dynamics is studied in [22] as Lorentz-invarinat motions;
from ibidem, the stress-energy tensor T µ ν is that of a viscous GR fluid.
When viscosity is vanishing, the fluid macroscopic solutions of the EFE’s are
taken, i.e., the correction addends related with the velocity gradients are van-
ishing.
As a consequence, entropy is conserved; in particular, it is conserved also on the
flux lines.


                                        9
The equations of motion are those as the Euler equations in the covariant ver-
sion; no kinetic-energy loss is admitted, and vorticity is allowed (i.e., the differ-
ence between gas and perfect fluid is admitted).

   It is the aim of the present Section to study complete pseudo-Riemannian
noncompact manifolds with constant sectional curvature and to prove that they
are space form when issued from the corresponding solitonic structures.



7    Outlook
From the work of Chow [24], lemma 2.9 from ibidem is now respected as fol-
lowing from the most general result from Definition D1 and from Eq. (12); to
the results of Chow, the study of the vanishing infinitesimal volume growth of
geodesics spheres is to be newly applied: I remark here that the result is inde-
pendent of the connectedness of the spaces and of that of the spacetimes as it
is proven within the present context as from the definition of derivative in the
convex spaces.
In the work of Chow [24], the Weyl tensor of the locally conformally flat man-
ifolds is calculated as vanishing from eq. 2.8 from ibidem: it is my aim to
remark that therefore the pertinent results from [13] and from [10] are therefore
discarded after the work of Chow [24].
The recent approaches from the work of [25] and from that of [26] are therefore
ruled out as well; indeed, one see that the Bach tensor being radially nonnega-
tive implies̺-Einstein solitons, for which
Theorem T14 :
The ̺-Einstein solitons are implied after (at least) harmonic Weyl tensor and
vanishing Bach tensor.
This way,
Theorem T15:
The ̺-Einstein solitons admit vanishing Weyl tensor.
Proof T15:
After the eq. 2.8 from the work of Chow [24]. 



Appendix I: Proof of existence and uniqueness of
smooth global Cauchy hypersurface
It is the aim of the present Appendix to study complete pseudo-Riemannian
noncompact manifolds with constant sectional curvature and to prove that they
are space form when issued from the corresponding solitonic structures.
The Appendix I is aimed at studying the behaviours of Einsteinian manifolds




                                         10
admitting a nonzero parallel vector field as
                                         R
                                 Rµν =     Gµν .                            (33)
                                         n
The specifications are further given when the spacetime dimensions is 4 and
                                         R
                                 Rµν =     gµν .                            (34)
                                         4
   The parallel vector is now chosen as v µ the spacetime dimensional 4-velocity
vector field.
The metric tensor is rescaled along the flow of the parallel vector field, and th
unmeterized unweighted manifold M is split as

                                 M →R×N                                     (35)

being N the (n − 1)-space-dimensional manifold. It is the aim of the present
section to prove that N exists and is unique after meterization, and that R is
reduced to the meterized R when meterization of N is the weighted manifold
N ; the metric tensor gµν is pslit accordingly (the weight being appended as
      2
e−2f gµν ) for the wieght to enter the determinant of the metric in the expres-
sion of the infinitesimal volume element.
Indeed, v µ is spanning the R direction; v µ is therefore the speed of sound bµ ,
as it is proven now.
The parallel vector field v µ defines the holonomy group of the manifolds:
Theorem TI1:
∃!v µ . 
Theorem TI2:
the holonomy group of N is SO(n).
Proof TI2:
After Theorem I1. 
Theorem TI3:
The metric tensor gµν is splitted according to the direction xt spanned after the
v µ 4-velocity vector. 
Theorem TI4:
The holonomy group of the metrized manifold N is SO(n − 1).
Proof TI4:
N is oriented. After construction; i.e.: when meterization is achieved with
weights, the meterization conserves the holonomy Hol(M) ∼    = Hol(N ). 


I.1 Manifolds of nonnegative curvatures
The spacetimes of nonnegative curvatures are investigated.
The spactimes of nonnegative curvature scalar include the vanishing-curvature
Schwarzschild spacetme, and the strictly-nonnegative curvature scalar space-
times as the Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes.


                                       11
Particular attention is paid to Generalized spacetimes of strictly-nonnegative
curvature.
In the latter case, one studies the implications of the following
Theorem TI5:
Let
                                   Rµν = λgµν ;                           (36)
then
                                    R = nλ 6= 0.                                  (37)


After Theorem TI5, the following holds
Theorem I6:
it The 4-velocity vector is timelike, i.e., v t 6= 0 and v r ≡ ur ; in this case v r is
vanishing. .
Remark RI1:
The inertial frame of the perfect fluid is now found when U r is vanishing, as
requested after [22].


I.11 Specifications of the perfect fluid
The case of novanishing v µ lead to the new modification of the Bochner identity
as
Theorem TI7:
The nonvanishing covariant derivatives of the 4-velocity

                                      ∇ν v µ 6= 0                                 (38)

define the new identity
                                ⇒ Rµν ∇µ f ∇ν f = 0.                              (39)


Proof TI7:
Eq. (39) is implied after
                                   gµν ∇µ ∇µ f = 0                                (40)
after which ∇2 f is estimated. Therefore, the Rotational invariance of the metric
is implied after the Rotational Ansatz. 
The new implications of the Rotational ansatz are now newly studied.
The EFE’s are now written in presence of matter as
                                     1
                          Gµν ≡ Rµν − gµν R ∗ +Λgµν = 0                           (41)
                                     2
where
                                     1         8πG
                          Gµν ≡ Rµν − gµν R ∗ − 4 Tµν                             (42)
                                     2          c


                                          12
and Λ is the cosmological constant; here R∗ coincides with its adjoitn R: the
squareroot of the sharp Hamilton operator is here not needed.
In this case,
                                   X µ Rµν                               (43)
from X µ a parallel vector field implies
                                          
                        8πG              1
                              Tµν = Λ − R gµν v µ v ν .                       (44)
                         c4              2

The perfect fluid without matter source The behaviour of the perfect
fluid without matter source is now investigated as
                            1              8πG
                       Rµν − gµν R + Λgµν = 4 Tµν .                           (45)
                            2               c
The following holds
Theorem TI8:
The perfect fluid takes the velocity fields on the weighted manifold.
Proof TI8:
From Eq. (44), the stress energy tensor of the perfect fluid is appended of the
             2
weights e−2f as
                                             2
                                 Tµν ≡ e−2f Tµν .                          (46)

Theorem TI9:
The velocity field of the perfect fluid exists and is unique; its length is nonvan-
sihing.
Proof TI9:
After Eq. (44). 
In the absence of the matter source, the stress-energy tensor of the perfect fluid
is recalled to be written as

                           Tµν = (ρ + p)uµ uν + pgµν .                        (47)

Therefore,
Theorem TI10:
The equation of state of the perfect fluid on a weighted manifold in the absence
of the matter source implied the behaviour
                                              c4
                                ρ = −p = Λ                                    (48)
                                             8πG

Remark RI2:
The behaviour from Eq. (48) is now obtained in the absence of the source terms,
and it is or geometrical characteristics.
After Theorem I10, one has the behavior of the parallel vector field as

                                   Rµν X µ = 0                                (49)


                                        13
implies Theorem TI11:
The parallel vector field is now taken as the velocity vector field of the inertial
frame.
Proof TI11:
The fluid must be orthogonal to X µ 
This way, Theorem I11 implies
Corollary CI1:
From
                               (ρ + p)(uµ X µ )2 = 0                          (50)
one has that X µ is timelike, i.e., the fluid is static with ur ≡ 0.
Remark RI3: From Corollary CI1, the fluid is filling statically the space-
time of the soliton manifold outside the fictitious singularity- the case of the
Schwarzschild spacetime and that of the Generalized-Schwarzschild spacetimes
are considered.
The GR pseudospherical cylinders are recovered.
The result from th. 4 from [23] is here falsified as
Corollary CI2:
A weighted manifold whose sectional curvature is strictly positive everywhere is
noncompact.


I.i2 Planes of constant nonvanishing sectional curvature
The palnes of cosntant nonnegative sectional curvatures are now here investi-
gated from
                                ∇ν X µ = 0,                             (51)
which impies
                                 Rµ νρσ X ν ≡ 0.                              (52)
Indeed,
Theorem TI12:
The sectional curvature of a plane Π originated after X µ and ’another’ tangent
vector W µ is nonvanishing.
Proof TI12:
The sectional curvature K of the plane Π originated as from in the above is
written as
                                   Rµνρσ v µ W ν v ρ W σ
                   K(Π) =                                       ;          (53)
                            (gµρ gνσ − gµσ gνρ )X µ W ν X ρ W σ
here W µ is a tangent vector of the GR pseudospherical cylinder, and it must
therefore be proportional (linearly dependent) to v µ : therefore,

                                  gµν V µ W ν 6= 0                            (54)

and K(Π) 6= 0 and the plane Π is uniquely defined up to the proportionality
arising from the W µ ’s. 
As it follows,


                                        14
Theorem TI13:
The would-be plane Σ 6= Π cannot contain the parallel vector (and, therefore,
the would-be plane Σ does not exist).
Proof TI13:
The plane orthogonal of the tangent vector implies
                                  Λ
                       Rµνρσ =       (gµρ gνσ − gµσ gνρ );                 (55)
                                 n−1
therefore, the would-be plane Σ cannot contain the parallel vector field: the
planes of constant curvature don’t contain the parallel vector. 



8    I.i2 Meterization
The meterization is now studied. It is now anticipated that the presence of
macrosopic matter solution of the EFE’s does not influence meterization.
It is noticed that
Theorem TI14:
The weights reqested within the present framework or constant. 
and, furthermore,
Theorem TI15:
The weights requested within the present framework are vanshing. 
As a consequence,
Remark RI4:
The meterization of the splitted manifold M results as M = R × N .
As v µ is reuqested to be timelike, the component v r is taken as vanishing.
As a reuslt, also the spacetimes of nonvanshiing Ricci curvature are considered,
after which
Theorem TI16:
The spacetime is geodesically complete.
Proof TI16:
N ic compact (i.e., it defines the GR pseudospherical cylinders). 
The infinite direction of the pseudospherical cylinders is generated after the
vanishing of v r .
Moreover,
Theorem TI17:
The meterized manifold N is already a Cauchy manifold which is smooth and
global.
Proof I17:
At each slice t = const there corresponds N . .
as a result,
Theorem TI18:
The spacetime of the meterized weighted gradient Ricci noncompact solitons is
globally hyperbolic. 
Theorem TI19:


                                       15
The metric tensor gµν is split as for the infinitesimal line element to result as

                    ds2 = gµν dxµ dxν = gtt dt2 + gξη dxξ dxη                (56)

being ξ and η not simultaneously equal to the t direction.
Proof TI19:
After Theorem TI1. 



References
 [1] C. Boehm, B. Wilking, Manifolds with positive curvature operators are
     space forms, Annals of Mathematics, 167 (2008), 1079-1097.

 [2] R. Hamilton, Three-manifolds with positive Ricci curvature, J. Differential
     Geom. 17 (1982), 255-306.

 [3] G. Huisken, Ricci deformation on the metric on a Riemannian manifold, J.
     Differential Geom. 21 (1985), 47-62.

 [4] R. Hamilton, The Ricci flow on surfaces, Mathematics and general relativ-
     ity, 237-262, Contemp. Math. 71, Amer. Math. Soc. (1988).

 [5] H. Chen, Pointwise 1/4-pinched 4-manifolds, Ann. Global Geom. 9 (1991),
     161-176.

 [6] R. Hamilton, Four-manifolds with positive curvature operator, J. Differen-
     tial Geom. 24 (1986), 153-179.

 [7] G. Catino, Rigidity of positively curved shrinking Ricci solitons in dimen-
     sion four, e-print arXiv:1807.05766 (2018).

 [8] A. Naber, Noncompact Shrinking 4-Solitons with Nonnegative Curvature,
     arXiv:2603.26903v2 (2026).

 [9] J.N. Vieira Gomes, M.A. Mendonc’a Marrocos, On a special class of gra-
     dient Ricci solitons, e-print arXiv:2603.26903 (2026).

[10] G. Catino, C. Mantegazza, Evolution of the Weyl tensor under the Ricci
     flow, Ann. Inst. Fourier, 1407- 1435 (2011).
[11] M. Eminenti, G. La Nave, C. Mantegazza, Ricci Solitons- The Equation
     Point of View, e-print arXiv:math/0607546 (2006).

[12] G. Catino, L. Mazzieri, Gradient Einstein solitons, e-print arXiv:1201.6620
     (2012).

[13] G. Catino, C. Mantegazza, L. Mazzieri, Locally conformally flat ancient
     Ricci flows, Anal. PDE 8(2), 365-371 (2015).


                                       16
[14] O.M. Lecian, The Yamabe Flow Under the Rotational Ansatz of
     Noncompact (Pseudo-Riemannian) Solitons: Schwarzschild Solitons and
     Generalized-Schwarzschild Ones, Axioms 15(4), 267 (2026).
[15] G. Perelman, Ricci flow with surgery on three-manifolds, e-print
     arXiv:math/0303109 (2003).

[16] A. C. Bezerra, T. Castro Silva, F. Manfio, Eigenvalue estimates and appli-
     cations on weighted manifolds, e-print arXiv:2412.09396v (2025).

[17] N. Alshehri, M. Guediri, Gradient Ricci Solitons on Spacelike Hypersurfaces
     of Lorentzian Manifolds Admitting a Closed Conformal Timelike Vector
     Field, Mathematics MDPI 12(6), 842 (2024).

[18] G. Wu, J.-Y. Wu, Willmore-type inequalities for closed hypersurfaces in
     weighted manifolds, e-print arXiv: 2404.16286 (2024).

[19] K.L. Dugga, R. Sharma, Conformal killing vector fields on spacetime solu-
     tions of Einstein’s equations and initial data, Nonlinear Analysis: Theory,
     Methods & Applications 63(5-7), e447-e454 (2005).

[20] P. Di Francesco, P. Mathieu, D. Sénéchal, Conformal Field Theory, 1997,
     ISBN 0-387-94785-X

[21] R.M. Wald, General Relativity, The University of Chicago Press (USA)
     1984.

[22] L.D. Landau, E.M. Lifschitz, A course in theoretical physics, Vol. 6 - Fluid
     Mechanics, Pergamon Press (1987).

[23] Josef Mikeś, L. Rýparová, S. Stepanov et al., On the Geometry in the Large
     of Einstein-like Manifolds , Mathematics 10(13), 2208 (2022).

[24] B. Chow, The Yamabe flow on locally conformally flat manifolds with pos-
     itive Ricci curvature, Comm. Pure Appl. Math. 65, 1003-1014 (1992).

[25] L. Lavoyer, L.T. Peachey, Steady Gradient Ricci Solitons with O(p) × O(q)
     symmetry, e-print arXiv:2509.25081v1 (2025).

[26] M. Andrandé, V. Borges, H. Reis, On gradient ρ-Einstein solitons with
     Banach tensor radially nonnegative, e-print arXiv:2503.24337 (2025).




                                       17
