                                       SymPy: symbolic computing in Python
                                       Aaron Meurer1 , Christopher P. Smith2 , Mateusz Paprocki3 , Ondřej Čertík4 ,
                                       Sergey B. Kirpichev5 , Matthew Rocklin3 , AMiT Kumar6 , Sergiu Ivanov7 ,
                                       Jason K. Moore8 , Sartaj Singh9 , Thilina Rathnayake10 , Sean Vig11 ,
                                       Brian E. Granger12 , Richard P. Muller13 , Francesco Bonazzi14 , Harsh Gupta15 ,
                                       Shivam Vats15 , Fredrik Johansson16 , Fabian Pedregosa17 , Matthew J. Curry18 ,19 ,20 ,
                                       Andy R. Terrel21 ,22 , Štěpán Roučka23 , Ashutosh Saboo24 , Isuru Fernando10 ,
                                       Sumith Kulal25 , Robert Cimrman26 and Anthony Scopatz1
                                   1
                                      Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, United States
                                   2
                                      Polar Semiconductor, Inc., Bloomington, MN, United States
                                    3
                                      Continuum Analytics, Inc., Austin, TX, United States
                                    4
                                      Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM, United States
                                    5
                                      Faculty of Physics, Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia
                                    6
                                      Department of Applied Mathematics, Delhi Technological University, New Delhi, India
                                    7
                                      Université Paris Est Créteil, Créteil, France
                                    8
                                      Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, University of California, Davis, CA, United States
                                    9
                                      Mathematical Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology (BHU), Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India
                                   10
                                      Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Moratuwa, Katubedda, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
                                   11
                                      University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, United States
                                   12
                                      California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, CA, United States
                                   13
                                      Center for Computing Research, Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, NM, United States
                                   14
                                      Department of Theory and Bio-Systems, Max Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces, Potsdam, Germany
                                   15
                                      Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, Kharagpur, West Bengal, India
                                   16
                                      INRIA Bordeaux-Sud-Ouest—LFANT project-team, Talence, France
                                   17
                                      INRIA—SIERRA project-team, Paris, France
                                   18
                                      Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, United States
                                   19
                                      Center for Quantum Information and Control, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, United States
                                   20
                                      Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, NM, United States
                                   21
                                      Fashion Metric, Inc, Austin, TX, United States
                                   22
                                      NumFOCUS, Austin, TX, United States
                                   23
                                      Department of Surface and Plasma Science, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles University in Prague,
                                      Praha, Czech Republic
                                   24
                                      Department of Computer Science, Department of Mathematics, Birla Institute of Technology and Science,
Submitted 22 June 2016                Goa, India
Accepted 21 November 2016          25
                                      Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India
Published 02 January 2017          26
                                      New Technologies—Research Centre, University of West Bohemia, Plzeň, Czech Republic
Corresponding author
Aaron Meurer, asmeurer@gmail.com
Academic editor
                                          ABSTRACT
Nick Higham                               SymPy is an open source computer algebra system written in pure Python. It is built
Additional Information and                with a focus on extensibility and ease of use, through both interactive and programmatic
Declarations can be found on              applications. These characteristics have led SymPy to become a popular symbolic library
page 22
                                          for the scientific Python ecosystem. This paper presents the architecture of SymPy, a
DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                  description of its features, and a discussion of select submodules. The supplementary
    Copyright                             material provide additional examples and further outline details of the architecture and
2017 Meurer et al.                        features of SymPy.
Distributed under
Creative Commons CC-BY 4.0
                                       Subjects Scientific Computing and Simulation, Software Engineering
OPEN ACCESS                            Keywords Python, Computer algebra system, Symbolics



                                       How to cite this article Meurer et al. (2017), SymPy: symbolic computing in Python. PeerJ Comput. Sci. 3:e103; DOI 10.7717/peerj-
                                       cs.103
                                              INTRODUCTION
                                              SymPy is a full featured computer algebra system (CAS) written in the Python (Lutz, 2013)
                                              programming language. It is free and open source software, licensed under the 3-clause
                                              BSD license (Rosen, 2005). The SymPy project was started by Ondřej Čertík in 2005, and
                                              it has since grown to over 500 contributors. Currently, SymPy is developed on GitHub
                                              using a bazaar community model (Raymond, 1999). The accessibility of the codebase and
                                              the open community model allow SymPy to rapidly respond to the needs of users and
                                              developers.
                                                 Python is a dynamically typed programming language that has a focus on ease of use
1 This paper assumes a moderate familiarity
                                              and readability.1 Due in part to this focus, it has become a popular language for scientific
with the Python programming language.         computing and data science, with a broad ecosystem of libraries (Oliphant, 2007). SymPy is
                                              itself used as a dependency by many libraries and tools to support research within a variety
                                              of domains, such as SageMath (The Sage Developers, 2016) (pure and applied mathematics),
                                              yt (Turk et al., 2011) (astronomy and astrophysics), PyDy (Gede et al., 2013) (multibody
                                              dynamics), and SfePy (Cimrman, 2014) (finite elements).
                                                 Unlike many CAS’s, SymPy does not invent its own programming language. Python
                                              itself is used both for the internal implementation and end user interaction. By using
                                              the operator overloading functionality of Python, SymPy follows the embedded domain
                                              specific language paradigm proposed by Hudak (1998). The exclusive usage of a single
                                              programming language makes it easier for people already familiar with that language to use
                                              or develop SymPy. Simultaneously, it enables developers to focus on mathematics, rather
                                              than language design. SymPy version 1.0 officially supports Python 2.6, 2.7 and 3.2–3.5.
                                                 SymPy is designed with a strong focus on usability as a library. Extensibility is important
                                              in its application program interface (API) design. Thus, SymPy makes no attempt to
                                              extend the Python language itself. The goal is for users of SymPy to be able to include
                                              SymPy alongside other Python libraries in their workflow, whether that be in an interactive
                                              environment or as a programmatic part in a larger system.
                                                 Being a library, SymPy does not have a built-in graphical user interface (GUI). However,
                                              SymPy exposes a rich interactive display system, and supports registering display formatters
                                              with Jupyter (Kluyver et al., 2016) frontends, including the Notebook and Qt Console,
                                              which will render SymPy expressions using MathJax (Cervone, 2012) or            .
                                                 The remainder of this paper discusses key components of the SymPy library. Section
                                              ‘Overview of capabilities’ enumerates the features of SymPy and takes a closer look at some
                                              of the important ones. The Section ‘Numerics’ looks at the numerical features of SymPy
                                              and its dependency library, mpmath. Section ‘Physics Submodule’ looks at the domain
                                              specific physics submodules for performing symbolic and numerical calculations in classical
                                              mechanics and quantum mechanics. Section ‘Architecture’ discusses the architecture of
                                              SymPy. Section ‘Projects that Depend on SymPy’ looks at a selection of packages that depend
                                              on SymPy. Conclusions and future directions for SymPy are given in ‘Conclusion and
                                              Future Work’. All examples in this paper use SymPy version 1.0 and mpmath version 0.19.
                                                 Additionally, the Supplemental Information 1 takes a deeper look at a few SymPy topics.
                                              Section S1 discusses the Gruntz algorithm, which SymPy uses to calculate symbolic limits.



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                     2/27
                                              Sections S2–S9 of the supplement discuss the series, logic, Diophantine equations, sets,
                                              statistics, category theory, tensor, and numerical simplification submodules of SymPy,
                                              respectively. Section S10 provides additional examples for topics discussed in the main
                                              paper. Section S11 discusses the SymPy Gamma project. Finally, Section S12 of the
                                              supplement contains a brief comparison of SymPy with Wolfram Mathematica.
2 import * has been used here to aid the         The following statement imports all SymPy functions into the global Python namespace.2
readability of the paper, but is best to      From here on, all examples in this paper assume that this statement has been executed3 :
avoid such wildcard import statements
in production code, as they make it unclear   >>> from sympy import *
which names are present in the namespace.
Furthermore, imported names could                All the examples in this paper can be tested on SymPy Live, an online Python shell that
clash with already existing imports from
another package. For example, SymPy, the
                                              uses the Google App Engine (Ciurana, 2009) to execute SymPy code. SymPy Live is also
standard Python math library, and NumPy       integrated into the SymPy documentation at http://docs.sympy.org.
all define the exp function, but only the
SymPy one will work with SymPy symbolic
expressions.                                  OVERVIEW OF CAPABILITIES
3 The three greater-than signs denote the     This section gives a basic introduction of SymPy, and lists its features. A few features—
user input for the Python interactive         assumptions, simplification, calculus, polynomials, printers, solvers, and matrices—are
session, with the result, if there is one,
shown on the next line.                       core components of SymPy and are discussed in depth. Many other features are discussed
                                              in depth in the Supplemental Information 1.

                                              Basic usage
                                              Symbolic variables, called symbols, must be defined and assigned to Python variables before
                                              they can be used. This is typically done through the symbols function, which may create
                                              multiple symbols in a single function call. For instance,
                                              >>> x, y, z = symbols('x y z')
                                              creates three symbols representing variables named x, y, and z. In this particular instance,
                                              these symbols are all assigned to Python variables of the same name. However, the user is
                                              free to assign them to different Python variables, while representing the same symbol, such
                                              as a, b, c = symbols('x y z'). In order to minimize potential confusion, though, all
                                              examples in this paper will assume that the symbols x , y , and z have been assigned to
                                              Python variables identical to their symbolic names.
                                                 Expressions are created from symbols using Python’s mathematical syntax. For instance,
                                              the following Python code creates the expression (x 2 − 2x + 3)/y. Note that the expression
                                              remains unevaluated: it is represented symbolically.
                                              >>> (x**2 - 2*x + 3)/y
                                              (x**2 - 2*x + 3)/y

                                              List of features
                                              Although SymPy’s extensive feature set cannot be covered in depth in this paper, bedrock
                                              areas, that is, those areas that are used throughout the library, are discussed in their own
                                              subsections below. Additionally, Table 1 gives a compact listing of all major capabilities
                                              present in the SymPy codebase. This grants a sampling from the breadth of topics and
                                              application domains that SymPy services. Unless stated otherwise, all features noted in
                                              Table 1 are symbolic in nature. Numeric features are discussed in Section ‘Numerics.’



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                    3/27
 Table 1 SymPy features and descriptions.

 Feature (submodules)                                                Description
 Calculus (sympy.core, sympy.calculus,                               Algorithms for computing derivatives, integrals, and limits.
 sympy.integrals, sympy.series)
 Category Theory (sympy.categories)                                  Representation of objects, morphisms, and diagrams. Tools
                                                                     for drawing diagrams with Xy-pic (Rose, 1999).
 Code Generation (sympy.printing, sympy.codegen)                     Generation of compilable and executable code in a variety
                                                                     of different programming languages from expressions
                                                                     directly. Target languages include C, Fortran, Julia,
                                                                     JavaScript, Mathematica, MATLAB and Octave, Python,
                                                                     and Theano.
 Combinatorics & Group Theory (sympy.combinatorics)                  Permutations, combinations, partitions, subsets, various
                                                                     permutation groups (such as polyhedral, Rubik, symmetric,
                                                                     and others), Gray codes (Nijenhuis & Wilf, 1978), and
                                                                     Prufer sequences (Biggs, Lloyd & Wilson, 1976).
 Concrete Math (sympy.concrete)                                      Summation, products, tools for determining whether
                                                                     summation and product expressions are convergent,
                                                                     absolutely convergent, hypergeometric, and for determining
                                                                     other properties; computation of Gosper’s normal form
                                                                     (Petkovšek, Wilf & Zeilberger, 1997) for two univariate
                                                                     polynomials.
 Cryptography (sympy.crypto)                                         Block and stream ciphers, including shift, Affine,
                                                                     substitution, Vigenère’s, Hill’s, bifid, RSA, Kid RSA,
                                                                     linear-feedback shift registers, and Elgamal encryption.
 Differential Geometry (sympy.diffgeom)                              Representations of manifolds, metrics, tensor products, and
                                                                     coordinate systems in Riemannian and pseudo-Riemannian
                                                                     geometries (Sussman & Wisdom, 2013).
 Geometry (sympy.geometry)                                           Representations of 2D geometrical entities, such as lines and
                                                                     circles. Enables queries on these entities, such as asking the
                                                                     area of an ellipse, checking for collinearity of a set of points,
                                                                     or finding the intersection between objects.
 Lie Algebras (sympy.liealgebras)                                    Representations of Lie algebras and root systems.
 Logic (sympy.logic)                                                 Boolean expressions, equivalence testing, satisfiability, and
                                                                     normal forms.
 Matrices (sympy.matrices)                                           Tools for creating matrices of symbols and expressions.
                                                                     Both sparse and dense representations, as well as
                                                                     symbolic linear algebraic operations (e.g., inversion and
                                                                     factorization), are supported.
 Matrix Expressions (sympy.matrices.expressions)                     Matrices with symbolic dimensions (unspecified entries).
                                                                     Block matrices.
 Number Theory (sympy.ntheory)                                       Prime number generation, primality testing, integer
                                                                     factorization, continued fractions, Egyptian fractions,
                                                                     modular arithmetic, quadratic residues, partitions,
                                                                     binomial and multinomial coefficients, prime number
                                                                     tools, hexidecimal digits of π, and integer factorization.
 Plotting (sympy.plotting)                                           Hooks for visualizing expressions via matplotlib (Hunter,
                                                                     2007) or as text drawings when lacking a graphical back-
                                                                     end. 2D function plotting, 3D function plotting, and 2D
                                                                     implicit function plotting are supported.
                                                                                                           (continued on next page)




Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                 4/27
Table 1 (continued)
  Feature (submodules)                                               Description
  Polynomials (sympy.polys)                                          Polynomial algebras over various coefficient domains.
                                                                     Functionality ranges from simple operations (e.g.,
                                                                     polynomial division) to advanced computations
                                                                     (e.g., Gröbner bases (Adams & Loustaunau, 1994) and
                                                                     multivariate factorization over algebraic number domains).
  Printing (sympy.printing)                                          Functions for printing SymPy expressions in the terminal
                                                                     with ASCII or Unicode characters and converting SymPy
                                                                     expressions to        and MathML.
  Quantum Mechanics (sympy.physics.quantum)                          Quantum states, bra–ket notation, operators, basis sets,
                                                                     representations, tensor products, inner products, outer
                                                                     products, commutators, anticommutators, and specific
                                                                     quantum system implementations.
  Series (sympy.series)                                              Series expansion, sequences, and limits of sequences. This
                                                                     includes Taylor, Laurent, and Puiseux series as well as
                                                                     special series, such as Fourier and formal power series.
  Sets (sympy.sets)                                                  Representations of empty, finite, and infinite sets (including
                                                                     special sets such as the natural, integer, and complex
                                                                     numbers). Operations on sets such as union, intersection,
                                                                     Cartesian product, and building sets from other sets are
                                                                     supported.
  Simplification (sympy.simplify)                                    Functions for manipulating and simplifying expressions.
                                                                     Includes algorithms for simplifying hypergeometric
                                                                     functions, trigonometric expressions, rational functions,
                                                                     combinatorial functions, square root denesting, and
                                                                     common subexpression elimination.
  Solvers (sympy.solvers)                                            Functions for symbolically solving equations, systems of
                                                                     equations, both linear and non-linear, inequalities, ordinary
                                                                     differential equations, partial differential equations,
                                                                     Diophantine equations, and recurrence relations.
  Special Functions (sympy.functions)                                Implementations of a number of well known special
                                                                     functions, including Dirac delta, Gamma, Beta, Gauss
                                                                     error functions, Fresnel integrals, Exponential integrals,
                                                                     Logarithmic integrals, Trigonometric integrals, Bessel,
                                                                     Hankel, Airy, B-spline, Riemann Zeta, Dirichlet eta,
                                                                     polylogarithm, Lerch transcendent, hypergeometric,
                                                                     elliptic integrals, Mathieu, Jacobi polynomials, Gegenbauer
                                                                     polynomial, Chebyshev polynomial, Legendre polynomial,
                                                                     Hermite polynomial, Laguerre polynomial, and spherical
                                                                     harmonic functions.
  Statistics (sympy.stats)                                           Support for a random variable type as well as the ability to
                                                                     declare this variable from prebuilt distribution functions
                                                                     such as Normal, Exponential, Coin, Die, and other custom
                                                                     distributions (Rocklin & Terrel, 2012).
  Tensors (sympy.tensor)                                             Symbolic manipulation of indexed objects.
  Vectors (sympy.vector)                                             Basic operations on vectors and differential calculus with
                                                                     respect to 3D Cartesian coordinate systems.




Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                5/27
4 In SymPy, √z is defined on the usual             Assumptions
principal branch with the branch cut along         The assumptions system allows users to specify that symbols have certain common
the negative real axis.
                                                   mathematical properties, such as being positive, imaginary, or integer. SymPy is careful to
                                                   never perform simplifications
                                                                               √ on an expression unless the assumptions allow them. For
                                                   instance, the simplification t 2 = t holds if t is nonnegative (t ≥ 0), but it does not hold
                                                   for a general complex t .4
                                                      By default, SymPy performs all calculations assuming that symbols are complex valued.
                                                   This assumption makes it easier to treat mathematical problems in full generality.
5 SymPy assumes that two expressions

A and B commute with each other                    >>> t = Symbol('t')
multiplicatively, that is, A · B = B · A, unless   >>> sqrt(t**2)
they both have commutative=False.
Many algorithms in SymPy require special           sqrt(t**2)
consideration to work correctly with                 By assuming the most general case, that t is complex by default, SymPy avoids performing
noncommutative products.
                                                   mathematically invalid operations.√However, in many cases users will wish to simplify
                                                   expressions containing terms like t 2 .
                                                     Assumptions are set on Symbol objects when they are created. For instance Symbol('t',
                                                   positive=True) will create a symbol named t that is assumed to be positive.
                                                   >>> t = Symbol('t', positive=True)
                                                   >>> sqrt(t**2)
                                                   t
                                                      Some of the common assumptions are negative, real, nonpositive, integer, prime
                                                   and commutative.5 Assumptions on any SymPy object can be checked with the is_
                                                   assumption attributes, like t.is_positive .
                                                      Assumptions are only needed to restrict a domain so that certain simplifications can be
6 For historical reasons, this algorithm           performed. They are not required to make the domain match the input of a function. For
is distinct from the sympy.logic                   instance, one can create the object mn=0 f (n) as Sum(f(n), (n, 0, m)) without setting
                                                                                      P
submodule, which is discussed in Section
S3. SymPy also has an experimental                 integer=True when creating the Symbol object n.
assumptions system which stores                       The assumptions system additionally has deductive capabilities. The assumptions use
facts separate from objects, and uses
sympy.logic and a SAT solver for
                                                   a three-valued logic using the Python built in objects True, False, and None. Note that
deduction. We will not discuss this system         False is returned if the SymPy object doesn’t or can’t have the assumption. For example,
here.
                                                   both I.is_real and I.is_prime return False for the imaginary unit I.
                                                      None represents the ‘‘unknown’’ case. This could mean that given assumptions
                                                   do not unambiguously specify the truth of an attribute. For instance, Symbol('x',
                                                   real=True).is_positive will give None because a real symbol might be positive or
                                                   negative. None could also mean that not enough is known or implemented to compute the
                                                   given fact. For instance, (pi + E).is_irrational gives None—indeed, the rationality of
                                                   π + e is an open problem in mathematics (Lang, 1966).
                                                      Basic implications between the facts are used to deduce assumptions. Deductions are
                                                   made using the Rete algorithm (Doorenbos, 1995).6 For instance, the assumptions system
                                                   knows that being an integer implies being rational.
                                                   >>> i = Symbol('i', integer=True)
                                                   >>> i.is_rational
                                                   True



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                        6/27
                                             Table 2 Some SymPy simplification functions.

                                               expand                           expand the expression
                                               factor                           factor a polynomial into irreducibles
                                               collect                          collect polynomial coefficients
                                               cancel                           rewrite a rational function as p/q with common factors canceled
                                               apart                            compute the partial fraction decomposition of a rational function
                                               trigsimp                         simplify trigonometric expressions (Fu, Zhong & Zeng, 2006)
                                               hyperexpand                      expand hypergeometric functions (Roach, 1996; Roach, 1997)



                                            Furthermore, expressions compute the assumptions on themselves based on the assump-
                                            tions of their arguments. For instance, if x and y are both created with positive=True,
                                            then (x + y).is_positive will be True (whereas (x - y).is_positive will be None).

                                            Simplification
7 The measure parameter of the simplify     The generic way to simplify an expression is by calling the simplify function. It must be
function lets the user specify the Python   emphasized that simplification is not a rigorously defined mathematical operation (Moses,
function used to determine how complex
                                            1971). The simplify function applies several simplification routines along with heuristics
an expression is. The default measure
function returns the total number of        to make the output expression ‘‘simple’’.7
operations in the expression.
                                                It is often preferable to apply more directed simplification functions. These apply very
                                            specific rules to the input expression and are typically able to make guarantees about the
                                            output. For instance, the factor function, given a polynomial with rational coefficients in
                                            several variables, is guaranteed to produce a factorization into irreducible factors. Table 2
                                            lists common simplification functions.
                                                Examples for these simplification functions can be found in Section S10.

                                            Calculus
                                            SymPy provides all the basic operations of calculus, such as calculating limits, derivatives,
                                            integrals, or summations.
                                               Limits are computed with the limit function, using the Gruntz algorithm (Gruntz,
                                            1996) for computing symbolic limits and heuristics (a description of the Gruntz algorithm
                                            may be found in Section S1). For example, the following computes limx→∞ x sin( x1 ) = 1.
                                            Note that SymPy denotes ∞ as oo (two lower case ‘‘o’’s).

                                            >>> limit(x*sin(1/x), x, oo)
                                            1
                                            As a more complex example, SymPy computes
                                                1−cos(x)     sinh(x)
                                                              atan2 (x)
                                            lim 2e sin(x) −1            = e.
                                            x→0

                                            >>> limit((2*exp((1-cos(x))/sin(x))-1)**(sinh(x)/atan(x)**2), x, 0)
                                            E
                                               Derivatives are computed with the diff function, which recursively uses the various
                                            differentiation rules.



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                            7/27
                                   >>> diff(sin(x)*exp(x), x)
                                   exp(x)*sin(x) + exp(x)*cos(x)
                                      Integrals are calculated with the integrate function. SymPy implements a combination
                                   of the Risch algorithm (Bronstein, 2005b), table lookups, a reimplementation of Manuel
                                   Bronstein’s ‘‘Poor Man’s Integrator’’ (Bronstein, 2005a), and an algorithm for computing
                                   integrals based on Meijer G-functions (Roach, 1996; Roach, 1997). These allow SymPy to
                                   compute a wide variety of indefinite and definite integrals. The Meijer G-function algorithm
                                   and the Risch algorithm are respectively demonstrated below by the computation of
                                                             log(s) + γ
                                   Z ∞
                                        e −st log(t ) dt = −
                                    0                             s
                                      and
                                                                      2
                                   Z −2x 2 log(x) + 1 e x 2 + e x 2 + 1
                                                     
                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                       .
                                                                                               
                                                   2                       dx = log log(x) + 1 + x 2
                                               x2                                                e +1
                                                              
                                            x e + 1 log(x) + 1
                                   >>> s, t = symbols('s t', positive=True)
                                   >>> integrate(exp(-s*t)*log(t), (t, 0, oo)).simplify()
                                   -(log(s) + EulerGamma)/s
                                   >>> integrate((-2*x**2*(log(x) + 1)*exp(x**2) +
                                   ... (exp(x**2) + 1)**2)/(x*(exp(x**2) + 1)**2*(log(x) + 1)), x)
                                   log(log(x) + 1) + 1/(exp(x**2) + 1)
                                      Summations are computed with the summation function, which uses a combination
                                   of Gosper’s algorithm (Gosper, 1978), an algorithm that uses Meijer G-functions (Roach,
                                   1996; Roach, 1997), and heuristics. Products are computed with product function via a
                                   suite of heuristics.
                                   >>> i, n = symbols('i n')
                                   >>> summation(2**i, (i, 0, n - 1))
                                   2**n - 1
                                   >>> summation(i*factorial(i), (i, 1, n))
                                   n*factorial(n) + factorial(n) - 1
                                     Series expansions are computed with the series function. This example computes the
                                   power series of sin(x) around x = 0 up to x 6 .
                                   >>> series(sin(x), x, 0, 6)
                                   x - x**3/6 + x**5/120 + O(x**6)
                                     Section S2 discusses series expansions methods in more depth. Integrals, derivatives,
                                   summations, products, and limits that cannot be computed return unevaluated objects.
                                   These can also be created directly if the user chooses.
                                   >>> integrate(x**x, x)
                                   Integral(x**x, x)
                                   >>> Sum(2**i, (i, 0, n - 1))
                                   Sum(2**i, (i, 0, n - 1))



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                        8/27
                                                Polynomials
                                                SymPy implements a suite of algorithms for polynomial manipulation, which ranges from
                                                relatively simple algorithms for doing arithmetic of polynomials, to advanced methods for
                                                factoring multivariate polynomials into irreducibles, symbolically determining real and
                                                complex root isolation intervals, or computing Gröbner bases.
                                                   Polynomial manipulation is useful in its own right. Within SymPy, though, it is mostly
                                                used indirectly as a tool in other areas of the library. In fact, many mathematical problems in
                                                symbolic computing are first expressed using entities from the symbolic core, preprocessed,
                                                and then transformed into a problem in the polynomial algebra, where generic and efficient
                                                algorithms are used to solve the problem. The solutions to the original problem are
                                                subsequently recovered from the results. This is a common scheme in symbolic integration
                                                or summation algorithms.
8 In a dense representation, the coefficients
                                                   SymPy implements dense and sparse polynomial representations.8 Both are used in the
for all terms up to the degree of each          univariate and multivariate cases. The dense representation is the default for univariate
variable are stored in memory. In a             polynomials. For multivariate polynomials, the choice of representation is based on
sparse representation, only the nonzero
coefficients are stored.                        the application. The most common case for the sparse representation is algorithms for
                                                computing Gröbner bases (Buchberger, F4, and F5) (Buchberger, 1965; Faugère, 1999;
                                                Faugère, 2002). This is because different monomial orderings can be expressed easily in this
                                                representation. However, algorithms for computing multivariate GCDs or factorizations,
                                                at least those currently implemented in SymPy (Paprocki, 2010), are better expressed
                                                when the representation is dense. The dense multivariate representation is specifically a
                                                recursively-dense representation, where polynomials in K [x0 ,x1 ,...,xn ] are viewed as a
                                                polynomials in K [x0 ][x1 ]...[xn ]. Note that despite this, the coefficient domain K , can be
                                                a multivariate polynomial domain as well. The dense recursive representation in Python
                                                gets inefficient as the number of variables increases.
                                                   Some examples for the sympy.polys submodule can be found in Section S10.

                                                Printers
                                                SymPy has a rich collection of expression printers. By default, an interactive Python session
9 Many Python libraries distinguish the
                                                will render the str form of an expression, which has been used in all the examples in this
str form of an object, which is meant to
be human-readable, and the repr form,           paper so far. The str form of an expression is valid Python and roughly matches what a
which is mean to be valid Python that           user would type to enter the expression.9
recreates the object. In SymPy, str(expr)
== repr(expr). In other words, the string       >>> phi0 = Symbol('phi0')
representation of an expression is designed
to be compact, human-readable, and valid        >>> str(Integral(sqrt(phi0), phi0))
Python code that could be used to recreate      'Integral(sqrt(phi0), phi0)'
the expression. As noted in Section ‘The
core’, the srepr function prints the exact,        A two-dimensional (2D) textual representation of the expression can be printed with
verbose form of an expression.                  monospace fonts via pprint. Unicode characters are used for rendering mathematical
                                                symbols such as integral signs, square roots, and parentheses. Greek letters and subscripts
                                                in symbol names that have Unicode code points associated are also rendered automatically.




Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                        9/27
                                               Alternately, the use_unicode=False flag can be set, which causes the expression to be
                                               printed using only ASCII characters.

                                               >>> pprint(Integral(sqrt(phi0 + 1), phi0), use_unicode=False)
                                                  /
                                                |
                                                |   __________
                                                | \/ phi0 + 1 d(phi0)
                                                |
                                               /
                                                 The function latex returns a         representation of an expression.

                                               >>> print(latex(Integral(sqrt(phi0 + 1), phi0)))
                                               \int \sqrt{\phi_{0} + 1}\, d\phi_{0}
                                                  Users are encouraged to run the init_printing function at the beginning of
                                               interactive sessions, which automatically enables the best pretty printing supported by
                                               their environment. In the Jupyter Notebook or Qt Console (Pérez & Granger, 2007), the
                                                     printer is used to render expressions using MathJax or      , if it is installed on the
                                               system. The 2D text representation is used otherwise.
                                                  Other printers such as MathML are also available. SymPy uses an extensible printer
                                               subsystem, which allows extending any given printer, and also allows custom objects to
                                               define their printing behavior for any printer. The code generation functionality of SymPy
                                               relies on this subsystem to convert expressions into code in various target programming
                                               languages.

                                               Solvers
                                               SymPy has equation solvers that can handle ordinary differential equations, recurrence
10 See Section S4 for an in depth discussion
                                               relationships, Diophantine equations,10 and algebraic equations. There is also rudimentary
 on the Diophantine submodule.
                                               support for simple partial differential equations.
                                                  There are two functions for solving algebraic equations in SymPy: solve and solveset.
                                               solveset has several design changes with respect to the older solve function. This
                                               distinction is present in order to resolve the usability issues with the previous solve
                                               function API while maintaining backward compatibility with earlier versions of SymPy.
                                               solveset only requires essential input information from the user. The function signatures
                                               of solve and solveset are

                                               solve(f, *symbols, **flags)
                                               solveset(f, symbol, domain=S.Complexes)
                                               The domain parameter can be any set from the sympy.sets module (see Section S5 for
                                               details on sympy.sets), but is typically either S.Complexes (the default) or S.Reals; the
                                               latter causes solveset to only return real solutions.
                                                  An important difference between the two functions is that the output API of solve
                                               varies with input (sometimes returning a Python list and sometimes a Python dictionary)
                                               whereas solveset always returns a SymPy set object.



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                    10/27
                                                 Both functions implicitly assume that expressions are equal to 0. For instance,
                                              solveset(x - 1, x) solves x − 1 = 0 for x.
                                                 solveset is under active development as a planned replacement for solve. There
                                              are certain features which are implemented in solve that are not yet implemented in
                                              solveset, including multivariate systems, and some transcendental equations.
                                                 Some examples for solveset and solve can be found in Section S10.

                                              Matrices
                                              Besides being an important feature in its own right, computations on matrices with
                                              symbolic entries are important for many algorithms within SymPy. The following code
                                              shows some basic usage of the Matrix class.

                                              >>> A = Matrix([[x, x + y], [y, x]])
                                              >>> A
                                              Matrix([
                                              [x, x + y],
                                              [y,     x]])
                                                  SymPy matrices support common symbolic linear algebra manipulations, including
                                              matrix addition, multiplication, exponentiation, computing determinants, solving
                                              linear systems, singular values, and computing inverses using LU decomposition, LDL
                                              decomposition, Gauss-Jordan elimination, Cholesky decomposition, Moore–Penrose
                                              pseudoinverse, or adjugate matrices.
                                                  All operations are performed symbolically. For instance, eigenvalues are computed by
                                              generating the characteristic polynomial using the Berkowitz algorithm and then finding
                                              its zeros using polynomial routines.

                                              >>> A.eigenvals()
                                              {x - sqrt(y*(x + y)): 1, x + sqrt(y*(x + y)): 1}
                                                 Internally these matrices store the elements as Lists of Lists (LIL) (Jones et al., 2001),
                                              meaning the matrix is stored as a list of lists of entries (effectively, the input format used to
11 Similar to the polynomials submodule,      create the matrix A above), making it a dense representation.11 For storing sparse matrices,
 dense here means that all entries are        the SparseMatrix class can be used. Sparse matrices store their elements in Dictionary of
 stored in memory, contrasted with a sparse
 representation where only nonzero entries    Keys (DOK) format, meaning that the entries are stored as a dict of (row, column) pairs
 are stored.                                  mapping to the elements.
                                                 SymPy also supports matrices with symbolic dimension values. MatrixSymbol represents
                                              a matrix with dimensions m × n, where m and n can be symbolic. Matrix addition and
                                              multiplication, scalar operations, matrix inverse, and transpose are stored symbolically as
                                              matrix expressions.
                                                 Block matrices are also implemented in SymPy. BlockMatrix elements can be any
                                              matrix expression, including explicit matrices, matrix symbols, and other block matrices.
                                              All functionalities of matrix expressions are also present in BlockMatrix .
                                                 When symbolic matrices are combined with the assumptions submodule for
                                              logical inference, they provide powerful reasoning over invertibility, semi-definiteness,



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                       11/27
                                   orthogonality, etc., which are valuable in the construction of numerical linear algebra
                                   systems (Rocklin, 2013).
                                      More examples for Matrix and BlockMatrix may be found in Section S10.

                                   NUMERICS
                                   While SymPy primarily focuses on symbolics, it is impossible to have a complete symbolic
                                   system without the ability to numerically evaluate expressions. Many operations directly
                                   use numerical evaluation, such as plotting a function, or solving an equation numerically.
                                   Beyond this, certain purely symbolic operations require numerical evaluation to effectively
                                   compute. For instance, determining the truth value of e +1 > π is most conveniently done
                                   by numerically evaluating both sides of the inequality and checking which is larger.

                                   Floating-point numbers
                                   Floating-point numbers in SymPy are implemented by the Float class, which represents
                                   an arbitrary-precision binary floating-point number by storing its value and precision
                                   (in bits). This representation is distinct from the Python built-in float type, which is a
                                   wrapper around machine double types and uses a fixed precision (53-bit).
                                      Because Python float literals are limited in precision, strings should be used to input
                                   precise decimal values:

                                   >>> Float(1.1)
                                   1.10000000000000
                                   >>> Float(1.1, 30)   # precision equivalent to 30 digits
                                   1.10000000000000008881784197001
                                   >>> Float("1.1", 30)
                                   1.10000000000000000000000000000
                                   The evalf method converts a constant symbolic expression to a Float with the specified
                                   precision, here 25 digits:

                                   >>> (pi + 1).evalf(25)
                                   4.141592653589793238462643
                                   Float numbers do not track their accuracy, and should be used with caution within
                                   symbolic expressions since familiar dangers of floating-point arithmetic apply (Goldberg,
                                   1991). A notorious case is that of catastrophic cancellation:

                                   >>> cos(exp(-100)).evalf(25) - 1
                                   0
                                   Applying the evalf method to the whole expression solves this problem. Internally,
                                   evalf estimates the number of accurate bits of the floating-point approximation for each
                                   sub-expression, and adaptively increases the working precision until the estimated accuracy
                                   of the final result matches the sought number of decimal digits:

                                   >>> (cos(exp(-100)) - 1).evalf(25)
                                   -6.919482633683687653243407e-88



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                      12/27
                                   The evalf method works with complex numbers and supports more complicated
                                   expressions, such as special functions, infinite series, and integrals. The internal error
                                   tracking does not provide rigorous error bounds (in the sense of interval arithmetic) and
                                   cannot be used to accurately track uncertainty in measurement data; the sole purpose is
                                   to mitigate loss of accuracy that typically occurs when converting symbolic expressions to
                                   numerical values.

                                   The mpmath library
                                   The implementation of arbitrary-precision floating-point arithmetic is supplied by the
                                   mpmath library (Johansson & The mpmath Development Team, 2014). Originally, it was
                                   developed as a SymPy submodule but has subsequently been moved to a standalone
                                   pure-Python package. The basic datatypes in mpmath are mpf and mpc, which respectively
                                   act as multiprecision substitutes for Python’s float and complex. The floating-point
                                   precision is controlled by a global context:

                                   >>> import mpmath
                                   >>> mpmath.mp.dps = 30    # 30 digits of precision
                                   >>> mpmath.mpf("0.1") + mpmath.exp(-50)
                                   mpf('0.100000000000000000000192874984794')
                                   >>> print(_) # pretty-printed
                                   0.100000000000000000000192874985
                                      Like SymPy, mpmath is a pure Python library. A design decision of SymPy is to keep it
                                   and its required dependencies pure Python. This is a primary advantage of mpmath over
                                   other multiple precision libraries such as GNU MPFR (Fousse et al., 2007), which is faster.
                                   Like SymPy, mpmath is also BSD licensed (GNU MPFR is licensed under the GNU Lesser
                                   General Public License (Rosen, 2005)).
                                      Internally, mpmath represents a floating-point number (−1)s x · 2y by a tuple (s,x,y,b)
                                   where x and y are arbitrary-size Python integers and the redundant integer b stores the bit
                                   length of x for quick access. If GMPY (Horsen, 2015) is installed, mpmath automatically
                                   uses the gmpy.mpz type for x, and GMPY methods for rounding-related operations,
                                   improving performance.
                                      Most mpmath and SymPy functions use the same naming scheme, although this is not
                                   true in every case. For example, the symbolic SymPy summation expression Sum(f(x),
                                   (x, a, b)) representing bx=a f (x) is represented in mpmath as nsum(f, (a, b)),
                                                              P

                                   where f is a numeric Python function.
                                      The mpmath library supports special functions, root-finding, linear algebra, polynomial
                                   approximation, and numerical computation of limits, derivatives, integrals, infinite series,
                                   and solving ODEs. All features work in arbitrary precision and use algorithms that allow
                                   computing hundreds of digits rapidly (except in degenerate cases).
                                      The double exponential (tanh-sinh) quadrature is used for numerical integration by
                                   default. For smooth integrands, this algorithm usually converges extremely rapidly, even
                                   when the integration interval is infinite or singularities are present at the endpoints
                                   (Takahasi & Mori, 1974; Bailey, Jeyabalan & Li, 2005). However, for good performance,



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                       13/27
                                   singularities in the middle of the interval must be specified by the user. To evaluate slowly
                                   converging limits and infinite series, mpmath automatically tries Richardson extrapolation
                                   and the Shanks transformation (Euler-Maclaurin summation can also be used) (Bender
                                   & Orszag, 1999). A function to evaluate oscillatory integrals by means of convergence
                                   acceleration is also available.
                                      A wide array of higher mathematical functions is implemented with full support
                                   for complex values of all parameters and arguments, including complete and incomplete
                                   gamma functions, Bessel functions, orthogonal polynomials, elliptic functions and integrals,
                                   zeta and polylogarithm functions, the generalized hypergeometric function, and the Meijer
                                   G-function. The Meijer G-function instance G3,0  1,3 0; 2 ,−1, − 2 x is a good test case
                                                                                           1        3
                                                                                                       

                                   (Toth, 2007); past versions of both Maple and Mathematica produced incorrect numerical
                                   values for large x > 0. Here, mpmath automatically removes an internal singularity and
                                   compensates for cancellations (amounting to 656 bits of precision when x = 10,000),
                                   giving correct values:

                                   >>> mpmath.mp.dps = 15
                                   >>> mpmath.meijerg([[],[0]], [[-0.5,-1,-1.5],[]], 10000)
                                   mpf('2.4392576907199564e-94')
                                      Equivalently, with SymPy’s interface this function can be evaluated as:

                                   >>> meijerg([[],[0]], [[-S(1)/2,-1,-S(3)/2],[]], 10000).evalf()
                                   2.43925769071996e-94
                                     Symbolic integration and summation often produce hypergeometric and Meijer G-
                                   function closed forms (see Section ‘Calculus’); numerical evaluation of such special
                                   functions is a useful complement to direct numerical integration and summation.

                                   PHYSICS SUBMODULE
                                   SymPy includes several submodules that allow users to solve domain specific physics
                                   problems. For example, a comprehensive physics submodule is included that is useful for
                                   solving problems in mechanics, optics, and quantum mechanics along with support for
                                   manipulating physical quantities with units.

                                   Classical mechanics
                                   One of the core domains that SymPy suports is the physics of classical mechanics. This is
                                   in turn separated into two distinct components: vector algebra and mechanics.

                                   Vector algebra
                                   The sympy.physics.vector submodule provides reference frame-, time-, and space-
                                   aware vector and dyadic objects that allow for three-dimensional operations such as
                                   addition, subtraction, scalar multiplication, inner and outer products, and cross products.
                                   The vector and dyadic objects both can be written in very compact notation that make it easy
                                   to express the vectors and dyadics in terms of multiple reference frames with arbitrarily
                                   defined relative orientations. The vectors are used to specify the positions, velocities,
                                   and accelerations of points; orientations, angular velocities, and angular accelerations of



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                        14/27
                                   reference frames; and forces and torques. The dyadics are essentially reference frame-aware
                                   3 × 3 tensors (Tai, 1997). The vector and dyadic objects can be used for any one-, two-,
                                   or three-dimensional vector algebra, and they provide a strong framework for building
                                   physics and engineering tools.
                                      The following Python code demonstrates how a vector is created using the orthogonal
                                   unit vectors of three reference frames that are oriented with respect to each other, and the
                                   result of expressing the vector in the A frame. The B frame is oriented with respect to the
                                   A frame using Z-X-Z Euler Angles of magnitude π , π2 , and π3 , respectively, whereas the C
                                   frame is oriented with respect to the B frame through a simple rotation about the B frame’s
                                   X unit vector through π2 .

                                   >>> from sympy.physics.vector import ReferenceFrame
                                   >>> A, B, C = symbols('A B C', cls=ReferenceFrame)
                                   >>> B.orient(A, 'body', (pi, pi/3, pi/4), 'zxz')
                                   >>> C.orient(B, 'axis', (pi/2, B.x))
                                   >>> v = 1*A.x + 2*B.z + 3*C.y
                                   >>> v
                                   A.x + 2*B.z + 3*C.y
                                   >>> v.express(A)
                                   A.x + 5*sqrt(3)/2*A.y + 5/2*A.z

                                   Mechanics
                                   The sympy.physics.mechanics submodule utilizes the sympy.physics.vector
                                   submodule to populate time-aware particle and rigid-body objects to fully describe
                                   the kinematics and kinetics of a rigid multi-body system. These objects store all of the
                                   information needed to derive the ordinary differential or differential algebraic equations
                                   that govern the motion of the system, i.e., the equations of motion. These equations of
                                   motion abide by Newton’s laws of motion and can handle arbitrary kinematic constraints
                                   or complex loads. The submodule offers two automated methods for formulating the
                                   equations of motion based on Lagrangian Dynamics (Lagrange, 1811) and Kane’s Method
                                   (Kane & Levinson, 1985). Lastly, there are automated linearization routines for constrained
                                   dynamical systems (Peterson, Gede & Hubbard, 2014).

                                   Quantum mechanics
                                   The sympy.physics.quantum submodule has extensive capabilities to solve problems
                                   in quantum mechanics, using Python objects to represent the different mathematical
                                   objects relevant in quantum theory (Sakurai & Napolitano, 2010): states (bras and kets),
                                   operators (unitary, Hermitian, etc.), and basis sets, as well as operations on these objects
                                   such as representations, tensor products, inner products, outer products, commutators,
                                   and anticommutators. The base objects are designed in the most general way possible to
                                   enable any particular quantum system to be implemented by subclassing the base operators
                                   and defining the relevant class methods to provide system-specific logic.
                                      Symbolic quantum operators and states may be defined, and one can perform a full
                                   range of operations with them.



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                       15/27
                                   >>> from sympy.physics.quantum import Commutator, Dagger, Operator
                                   >>> from sympy.physics.quantum import Ket, qapply
                                   >>> A, B, C, D = symbols('A B C D', cls=Operator)
                                   >>> a = Ket('a')
                                   >>> comm = Commutator(A, B)
                                   >>> comm
                                   [A,B]
                                   >>> qapply(Dagger(comm*a)).doit()
                                   -<a|*(Dagger(A)*Dagger(B) - Dagger(B)*Dagger(A))
                                   Commutators can be expanded using common commutator identities:
                                   >>> Commutator(C+B, A*D).expand(commutator=True)
                                   -[A,B]*D - [A,C]*D + A*[B,D] + A*[C,D]
                                     On top of this set of base objects, a number of specific quantum systems have been
                                   implemented in a fully symbolic framework. These include:
                                    • Many of the exactly solvable quantum systems, including simple harmonic oscillator
                                     states and raising/lowering operators, infinite square well states, and 3D position and
                                     momentum operators and states.
                                    • Second quantized formalism of non-relativistic many-body quantum mechanics (Fetter
                                     & Walecka, 2003).
                                    • Quantum angular momentum (Zare, 1991). Spin operators and their eigenstates
                                     can be represented in any basis and for any quantum numbers. A rotation operator
                                     representing the Wigner D-matrix, which may be defined symbolically or numerically, is
                                     also implemented to rotate spin eigenstates. Functionality for coupling and uncoupling
                                     of arbitrary spin eigenstates is provided, including symbolic representations of Clebsch-
                                     Gordon coefficients and Wigner symbols.
                                    • Quantum information and computing (Nielsen & Chuang, 2011). Multidimensional
                                     qubit states, and a full set of one- and two-qubit gates are provided and can be
                                     represented symbolically or as matrices/vectors. With these building blocks, it is possible
                                     to implement a number of basic quantum algorithms including the quantum Fourier
                                     transform, quantum error correction, quantum teleportation, Grover’s algorithm, dense
                                     coding, etc. In addition, any quantum circuit may be plotted using the circuit_plot
                                     function (Fig. 1).
                                      Here are a few short examples of the quantum information and computing capabilities
                                   in sympy.physics.quantum . Start with a simple four-qubit state and flip the second qubit
                                   from the right using a Pauli-X gate:

                                   >>> from sympy.physics.quantum.qubit import Qubit
                                   >>> from sympy.physics.quantum.gate import XGate
                                   >>> q = Qubit('0101')
                                   >>> q
                                   |0101>
                                   >>> X = XGate(1)



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                        16/27
                                            H          S          T
                                                                            H          S
                                                                                                 H
                                    Figure 1 The circuit diagram for a three-qubit quantum Fourier transform generated by SymPy.


                                   >>> qapply(X*q)
                                   |0111>
                                   Qubit states can also be used in adjoint operations, tensor products, inner/outer products:

                                   >>> Dagger(q)
                                   <0101|
                                   >>> ip = Dagger(q)*q
                                   >>> ip
                                   <0101|0101>
                                   >>> ip.doit()
                                   1
                                   Quantum gates (unitary operators) can be applied to transform these states and then
                                   classical measurements can be performed on the results:

                                   >>> from sympy.physics.quantum.qubit import measure_all
                                   >>> from sympy.physics.quantum.gate import H, X, Y, Z
                                   >>> c = H(0)*H(1)*Qubit('00')
                                   >>> c
                                   H(0)*H(1)*|00>
                                   >>> q = qapply(c)
                                   >>> measure_all(q)
                                   [(|00>, 1/4), (|01>, 1/4), (|10>, 1/4), (|11>, 1/4)]
                                   Lastly, the following example demonstrates creating a three-qubit quantum Fourier
                                   transform, decomposing it into one- and two-qubit gates, and then generating a circuit
                                   plot for the sequence of gates (see Fig. 1).
                                   >>> from sympy.physics.quantum.qft import QFT
                                   >>> from sympy.physics.quantum.circuitplot import circuit_plot
                                   >>> fourier = QFT(0,3).decompose()
                                   >>> fourier
                                   SWAP(0,2)*H(0)*C((0),S(1))*H(1)*C((0),T(2))*C((1),S(2))*H(2)
                                   >>> c = circuit_plot(fourier, nqubits=3)




Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                 17/27
                                                  ARCHITECTURE
                                                  Software architecture is of central importance in any large software project because it
                                                  establishes predictable patterns of usage and development (Shaw & Garlan, 1996). This
                                                  section describes the essential structural components of SymPy, provides justifications
                                                  for the design decisions that have been made, and gives example user-facing code as
                                                  appropriate.

                                                  The core
                                                  A computer algebra system stores mathematical expressions as data structures. For example,
                                                  the mathematical expression x + y is represented as a tree with three nodes, +, x, and y,
                                                  where x and y are ordered children of +. As users manipulate mathematical expressions
                                                  with traditional mathematical syntax, the CAS manipulates the underlying data structures.
                                                  Symbolic computations such as integration, simplification, etc. are all functions that
                                                  consume and produce expression trees.
                                                      In SymPy every symbolic expression is an instance of the class Basic,12 the superclass of
12 Some internal classes, such as those used in
                                                  all SymPy types providing common methods to all SymPy tree-elements, such as traversals.
 the polynomial submodule, do not follow
 this rule for efficiency reasons.                The children of a node in the tree are held in the args attribute. A leaf node in the expression
                                                  tree has empty args.
                                                      For example, consider the expression xy + 2:

                                                  >>> x, y = symbols('x y')
                                                  >>> expr = x*y + 2
                                                  By order of operations, the parent of the expression tree for expr is an addition. It is of
                                                  type Add. The child nodes of expr are 2 and x*y.

                                                  >>> type(expr)
                                                  <class 'sympy.core.add.Add'>
                                                  >>> expr.args
                                                  (2, x*y)
                                                     Descending further down into the expression tree yields the full expression. For example,
                                                  the next child node (given by expr.args[0]) is 2. Its class is Integer, and it has an empty
                                                  args tuple, indicating that it is a leaf node.

                                                  >>> expr.args[0]
                                                  2
                                                  >>> type(expr.args[0])
                                                  <class 'sympy.core.numbers.Integer'>
                                                  >>> expr.args[0].args
                                                  ()
                                                  Symbols or symbolic constants, like e or π , are other examples of leaf nodes.

                                                  >>> exp(1)
                                                  E
                                                  >>> exp(1).args



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                          18/27
                                                ()
                                                >>> x.args
                                                ()
13 The dotprint function from the
                                                   A useful way to view an expression tree is using the srepr function, which returns
 sympy.printing.dot submodule                   a string representation of an expression as valid Python code13 with all the nested class
 prints output to dot format, which can         constructor calls to create the given expression.
 be rendered with Graphviz to visualize
 expression trees graphically.
                                                >>> srepr(expr)
                                                "Add(Mul(Symbol('x'), Symbol('y')), Integer(2))"
                                                  Every SymPy expression satisfies a key identity invariant:

                                                expr.func(*expr.args) == expr
14 expr.func is used instead of type(expr)

 to allow the function of an expression to      This means that expressions are rebuildable from their args.14 Note that in SymPy the
 be distinct from its actual Python class. In   == operator represents exact structural equality, not mathematical equality. This allows
 most cases the two are the same.
                                                testing if any two expressions are equal to one another as expression trees. For example,
                                                even though (x + 1)2 and x 2 + 2x + 1 are equal mathematically, SymPy gives

                                                >>> (x + 1)**2 == x**2 + 2*x + 1
                                                False
                                                because they are different as expression trees (the former is a Pow object and the latter is
                                                an Add object).
                                                   Another important property of SymPy expressions is that they are immutable. This
                                                simplifies the design of SymPy, and enables expression interning. It also enables expressions
                                                to be hashed, which allows expressions to be used as keys in Python dictionaries, and is
                                                used to implement caching in SymPy.
                                                   Python allows classes to override mathematical operators. The Python interpreter
                                                translates the above x*y + 2 to, roughly, (x.__mul__(y)).__add__(2) . Both x and
                                                y, returned from the symbols function, are Symbol instances. The 2 in the expression is
                                                processed by Python as a literal, and is stored as Python’s built in int type. When 2 is
                                                passed to the __add__ method of Symbol, it is converted to the SymPy type Integer(2)
                                                before being stored in the resulting expression tree. In this way, SymPy expressions can be
                                                built in the natural way using Python operators and numeric literals.

                                                Extensibility
                                                While the core of SymPy is relatively small, it has been extended to a wide variety of
                                                domains by a broad range of contributors. This is due, in part, to the fact that the same
                                                language, Python, is used both for the internal implementation and the external usage by
                                                users. All of the extensibility capabilities available to users are also utilized by SymPy itself.
                                                This eases the transition pathway from SymPy user to SymPy developer.
                                                   The typical way to create a custom SymPy object is to subclass an existing SymPy class,
                                                usually Basic, Expr, or Function. As it was stated before, all SymPy classes used for
                                                expression trees should be subclasses of the base class Basic. Expr is the Basic subclass
                                                for mathematical objects that can be added and multiplied together. The most commonly
                                                seen classes in SymPy are subclasses of Expr, including Add, Mul, and Symbol. Instances of



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                          19/27
                                            Expr typically represent complex numbers, but may also include other ‘‘rings’’, like matrix
                                            expressions. Not all SymPy classes are subclasses of Expr. For instance, logic expressions,
15 See Section S3 for more information on

 the sympy.logic submodule.
                                            such as And(x, y) , are subclasses of Basic but not of Expr.15
                                               The Function class is a subclass of Expr which makes it easier to define mathematical
                                            functions called with arguments. This includes named functions like sin(x) and log(x) as
                                            well as undefined functions like f (x). Subclasses of Function should define a class method
                                            eval, which returns an evaluated value for the function application (usually an instance
                                            of some other class, e.g., a Number), or None if for the given arguments it should not be
                                            automatically evaluated.
                                               Many SymPy functions perform various evaluations down the expression tree. Classes
                                            define their behavior in such functions by defining a relevant _eval_ * method. For
                                            instance, an object can indicate to the diff function how to take the derivative of itself by
                                            defining the _eval_derivative(self, x) method, which may in turn call diff on its
                                            args. (Subclasses of Function should implement the fdiff method instead; it returns the
                                            derivative of the function without considering the chain rule.) The most common _eval_
                                            * methods relate to the assumptions: _eval_is_ assumption is used to deduce assumption
                                            on the object.
                                               Listing 1 presents an example of this extensibility. It gives a stripped down version of
                                            the gamma function 0(x) from SymPy. The methods defined allow it to evaluate itself on
                                            positive integer arguments, define the real assumption, allow it to be rewritten in terms
                                            of factorial (with gamma(x).rewrite(factorial) ), and allow it to be differentiated.
                                            self.func is used throughout instead of referencing gamma explicitly so that potential
                                            subclasses of gamma can reuse the methods.

                                                              Listing 1: A minimal implementation of sympy.gamma.
                                            from sympy import Function , Integer , factorial , polygamma
                                            class gamma ( Function ):
                                                @classmethod
                                                def eval ( cls , arg ):
                                                    if isinstance ( arg , Integer ) and arg . is_positive :
                                                          return factorial ( arg - 1)

                                                 def _eval_is_real ( self ):
                                                     x = self . args [0]
                                                     # noninteger means real and not integer
                                                     if x. is_positive or x. is_noninteger :
                                                         return True

                                                 def _eval_rewrite_as_factorial ( self , z ):
                                                     return factorial (z - 1)

                                                 def fdiff ( self , argindex =1):
                                                     from sympy . core . function import ArgumentIndexError
                                                     if argindex == 1:
                                                          return self . func ( self . args [0])* polygamma (0 , self . args [0])
                                                     else :
                                                          raise ArgumentIndexError ( self , argindex )

                                            The gamma function implemented in SymPy has many more capabilities than the above
                                            listing, such as evaluation at rational points and series expansion.




Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                 20/27
                                   Performance
                                   Due to being written in pure Python without the use of extension modules, SymPy’s
                                   performance characteristics are generally poorer than that of its commercial competitors.
                                   For many applications, the performance of SymPy, as measured by clock cycles, memory
                                   usage, and memory layout, is sufficient. However, the boundaries for when SymPy’s pure
                                   Python strategy becomes insufficient are when the user requires handling of very long
                                   expressions or many small expressions. Where this boundray lies depends on the system at
                                   hand, but tends to be within the range of 104 –106 symbols for modern computers.
                                      For this reason, a new project called SymEngine (The SymPy Developers, 2016a) has been
                                   started. The aim of this poject is to develop a library with better performance characteristics
                                   for symbolic manipulation. SymEngine is a pure C++ library, which allows it fine-grained
                                   control over the memory layout of expressions. SymEngine has thin wrappers to other
                                   languages (Python, Ruby, Julia, etc.). Its aim is to be the fastest symbolic manipulation
                                   library. Preliminary benchmarks suggest that SymEngine performs as well as its commercial
                                   and open source competitors.
                                      The development version of SymPy has recently started to use SymEngine as an optional
                                   backend, initially in sympy.physics.mechanics only. Future work will involve allowing
                                   more algorithms in SymPy to use SymEngine as a backend.

                                   PROJECTS THAT DEPEND ON SYMPY
                                   There are several projects that depend on SymPy as a library for implementing a part of
                                   their functionality. A selection of these projects are listed in Table 3.

                                   CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
                                   SymPy is a robust computer algebra system that provides a wide spectrum of features both
                                   in traditional computer algebra and in a plethora of scientific disciplines. It can be used in
                                   a first-class way with other Python projects, including the scientific Python stack.
                                      SymPy supports a wide array of mathematical facilities. These include functions for
                                   assuming and deducing common mathematical facts, simplifying expressions, performing
                                   common calculus operations, manipulating polynomials, pretty printing expressions,
                                   solving equations, and representing symbolic matrices. Other supported facilities
                                   include discrete math, concrete math, plotting, geometry, statistics, sets, series, vectors,
                                   combinatorics, group theory, code generation, tensors, Lie algebras, cryptography, and
                                   special functions. SymPy has strong support for arbitrary precision numerics, backed by
                                   the mpmath package. Additionally, SymPy contains submodules targeting certain specific
                                   physics domains, such as classical mechanics and quantum mechanics. This breadth of
                                   domains has been engendered by a strong and vibrant user community. Anecdotally, many
                                   of these users chose SymPy because of its ease of access. SymPy is a dependency of many
                                   external projects across a wide spectrum of domains.
                                      SymPy expressions are immutable trees of Python objects. Unlike many other CAS’s,
                                   SymPy is designed to be used in an extensible way: both as an end-user application and
                                   as a library. SymPy uses Python both as the internal language and the user language. This



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                          21/27
                                    Table 3 Selected projects that depend on SymPy.

                                     Project name                             Description
                                     SymPy Gamma                              An open source analog of Wolfram | Alpha that uses SymPy
                                                                              (The SymPy Developers, 2016b). There is more information
                                                                              about SymPy Gamma in Section S11.
                                     Cadabra                                  A CAS designed specifically for the resolution of problems
                                                                              encountered in field theory (Peeters, 2007).
                                     GNU Octave Symbolic Package              An implementation of a symbolic toolbox for Octave using
                                                                              SymPy (The Symbolic Package Developers, 2016).
                                     SymPy.jl                                 A Julia interface to SymPy, provided using PyCall (The
                                                                              SymPy.jl Developers, 2016).
                                     Mathics                                  A free, online CAS featuring Mathematica compatible
                                                                              syntax and functions (The Mathics Developers, 2016).
                                     Mathpix                                  An iOS App that detects handwritten math as input and
                                                                              uses SymPy Gamma to evaluate the math input and
                                                                              generate the relevant steps to solve the problem (Mathpix,
                                                                              Inc., 2016).
                                     IKFast                                   A robot kinematics compiler provided by OpenRAVE
                                                                              (Diankov, 2010).
                                     SageMath                                 A free open-source mathematics software system, which
                                                                              builds on top of many existing open-source packages,
                                                                              including SymPy (The Sage Developers, 2016).
                                     PyDy                                     Multibody Dynamics with Python (Gede et al., 2013).
                                     galgebra                                 A Python package for geometric algebra (previously
                                                                              sympy.galgebra) (Bromborsky, 2016).
                                     yt                                       A Python package for analyzing and visualizing volumetric
                                                                              data (Turk et al., 2011).
                                     SfePy                                    A Python package for solving partial differential equations
                                                                              (PDEs) in 1D, 2D, and 3D by the finite element (FE)
                                                                              method (Zienkiewicz, Taylor & Zhu, 2013; Cimrman, 2014).
                                     Quameon                                  Quantum Monte Carlo in Python (The Quameon
                                                                              Developers, 2016).
                                     Lcapy                                    An experimental Python package for teaching linear circuit
                                                                              analysis (The Lcapy Developers, 2016).


                                   permits users to access the same methods used by the library itself in order to extend it for
                                   their needs.
                                      Some of the planned future work for SymPy includes work on improving code
                                   generation, improvements to the speed of SymPy using SymEngine, improving the
                                   assumptions system, and improving the solvers submodule.

                                    ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND DECLARATIONS

                                   Funding
                                   Google Summer of Code provided financial support to students who contributed to SymPy.
                                   Ondřej Čertík was supported by the Los Alamos National Laboratory. The Los Alamos
                                   National Laboratory is operated by Los Alamos National Security, LLC, for the National
                                   Nuclear Security Administration of the US Department of Energy under Contract No.



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                                     22/27
                                   DE-AC52-06NA25396. Richard P. Muller was supported by Sandia National Laboratories.
                                   Sandia National Laboratories is a multi-program laboratory managed and operated by
                                   Sandia Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lockheed Martin Corporation, for the
                                   U.S. Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration under contract DE-
                                   AC04-94AL85000. Francesco Bonazzi was supported by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
                                   (DFG) via the International Research Training Group 1524 ‘‘Self- Assembled Soft Matter
                                   Nano-Structures at Interfaces.’’ The funders had no role in study design, data collection
                                   and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.

                                   Grant Disclosures
                                   The following grant information was disclosed by the authors:
                                   Google Summer of Code.
                                   Los Alamos National Laboratory: No. DE-AC52-06NA25396.
                                   Sandia National Laboratories: DE-AC04-94AL85000.
                                   International Research Training Group 1524.

                                   Competing Interests
                                   Christopher P. Smith is an employee of Polar Semiconductor, Inc., Bloomington,
                                   Minnesota, United States; Mateusz Paprocki and Matthew Rocklin are employees of
                                   Continuum Analytics, Inc., Austin, Texas, United States; Andy R. Terrel is an employee of
                                   Fashion Metric, Inc, Austin, Texas, United States.

                                   Author Contributions
                                   • Aaron Meurer, Christopher P. Smith, Mateusz Paprocki, Ondřej Čertík, Sergey B.
                                     Kirpichev, Matthew Rocklin, AMiT Kumar, Sergiu Ivanov, Jason K. Moore, Sartaj
                                     Singh, Thilina Rathnayake, Sean Vig, Brian E. Granger, Richard P. Muller, Francesco
                                     Bonazzi, Harsh Gupta, Shivam Vats, Fredrik Johansson, Fabian Pedregosa, Matthew J.
                                     Curry, Andy R. Terrel, Štěpán Roučka, Ashutosh Saboo, Isuru Fernando, Sumith Kulal,
                                     Robert Cimrman and Anthony Scopatz wrote the paper, performed the computation
                                     work, reviewed drafts of the paper.

                                   Data Availability
                                   The following information was supplied regarding data availability:
                                      The source for the paper is at https://github.com/sympy/sympy-paper. The source code
                                   for SymPy is at https://github.com/sympy/sympy.

                                   Supplemental Information
                                   Supplemental information for this article can be found online at http://dx.doi.org/10.7717/
                                   peerj-cs.103#supplemental-information.


                                   REFERENCES
                                    Adams WW, Loustaunau P. 1994. An introduction to Gröbner bases. Vol. 3. Boston:
                                       American Mathematical Society.



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                      23/27
                                    Bailey DH, Jeyabalan K, Li XS. 2005. A comparison of three high-precision quadrature
                                        schemes. Experimental Mathematics 14(3):317–329.
                                    Bender CM, Orszag SA. 1999. Advanced mathematical methods for scientists and
                                        engineers. 1st edition. Berlin Heidelberg: Springer.
                                    Biggs N, Lloyd EK, Wilson RJ. 1976. Graph theory, 1736–1936. Oxford: Oxford
                                        University Press.
                                    Bromborsky A. 2016. Geometric algebra/calculus modules for SymPy galgebra. Available
                                        at https:// github.com/ brombo/ galgebra.
                                    Bronstein M. 2005a. pmint—The Poor Man’s Integrator. Available at http:// www-
                                        sop.inria.fr/ cafe/ Manuel.Bronstein/ pmint .
                                    Bronstein M. 2005b. Symbolic integration I: transcendental functions. New York:
                                        Springer–Verlag.
                                    Buchberger B. 1965. Ein Algorithmus zum Auffinden der Basis Elemente des Restk-
                                        lassenrings nach einem nulldimensionalen Polynomideal. PhD thesis, University of
                                        Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria.
                                    Cervone D. 2012. MathJax: a platform for mathematics on the Web. Notices of the AMS
                                        59(2):312–316.
                                    Cimrman R. 2014. SfePy—write your own FE application. Proceedings of the 6th
                                        european conference on Python in science (EuroSciPy 2013). 65–70. Available at
                                        http:// arxiv.org/ abs/ 1404.6391.
                                    Ciurana E. 2009. Google app engine. In: Developing with Google App Engine. FirstPress
                                        (En ligne), Berkeley: Apress.
                                    Diankov R. 2010. Ikfast: the robot kinematics compiler. Available at http:// openrave.org/
                                        docs/ latest_stable/ openravepy/ ikfast/ .
                                    Doorenbos RB. 1995. Production matching for large learning systems. PhD thesis,
                                        University of Southern California.
                                    Faugère JC. 1999. A new efficient algorithm for computing Gröbner bases (F4). Journal
                                        of Pure and Applied Algebra 139(1–3):61–88.
                                    Faugère JC. 2002. A new efficient algorithm for computing Gröbner bases without
                                        reduction to zero (F5). In: ISSAC’02: proceedings of the 2002 international symposium
                                        on symbolic and algebraic computation. New York: ACM Press 75–83..
                                    Fetter A, Walecka J. 2003. Quantum theory of many-particle systems. Mineola: Dover
                                        Publications.
                                    Fousse L, Hanrot G, Lefèvre V, Pélissier P, Zimmermann P. 2007. MPFR: a multiple-
                                        precision binary floating-point library with correct rounding. ACM Transactions on
                                        Mathematical Software 33(2): DOI 10.1145/1236463.1236468.
                                    Fu H, Zhong X, Zeng Z. 2006. Automated and readable simplification of trigonomet-
                                        ric expressions. Mathematical and Computer Modelling 55(11–12):1169–1177
                                        DOI 10.1016/j.mcm.2006.04.002.
                                    Gede G, Peterson DL, Nanjangud AS, Moore JK, Hubbard M. 2013. Constrained multi-
                                        body dynamics with Python: from symbolic equation generation to publication. In:
                                        ASME 2013 international design engineering technical conferences and computers and



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                       24/27
                                        information in engineering conference, New York: American Society of Mechanical
                                        Engineers, V07BT10A051–V07BT10A051.
                                    Goldberg D. 1991. What every computer scientist should know about floating-point
                                        arithmetic. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 23(1):5–48.
                                    Gosper RW. 1978. Decision procedure for indefinite hypergeometric summation.
                                        Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
                                        75(1):40–42.
                                    Gruntz D. 1996. On computing limits in a symbolic manipulation system. PhD thesis,
                                        Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zürich, Switzerland.
                                    Horsen CV. 2015. GMPY. Available at https:// pypi.python.org/ pypi/ gmpy2.
                                    Hudak P. 1998. Domain specific languages. In: Salas PH, ed. Handbook of programming
                                        languages, vol. III: little languages and tools, chapter 3. Indianapolis: MacMillan,
                                        39–60.
                                    Hunter JD. 2007. Matplotlib: a 2D graphics environment. Computing in Science &
                                        Engineering 9(3):90–95.
                                    Johansson F, The mpmath Development Team. 2014. mpmath: a Python library
                                        for arbitrary-precision floating-point arithmetic. Version 0.19. Available at http:
                                        // mpmath.org/ .
                                    Jones E, Oliphant T, Peterson P, The SciPy Development Team. 2001. SciPy: open
                                        source scientific tools for Python. Available at http:// www.scipy.org/ (accessed on 28
                                        September 2016).
                                    Kane TR, Levinson DA. 1985. Dynamics, theory and applications. New York: McGraw
                                        Hill.
                                    Kluyver T, Ragan-Kelley B, Pérez F, Granger B, Bussonnier M, Frederic J, Kelley
                                        K, Hamrick J, Grout J, Corlay S, Ivanov P, Avila D, Abdalla S, Willing C, The
                                        Jupyter Development Team. 2016. Jupyter Notebooks—a publishing format for
                                        reproducible computational workflows. In: Positioning and power in academic
                                        publishing: players, agents and agendas: proceedings of the 20th international conference
                                        on electronic publishing. Amsterdam: IOS Press, 87.
                                    Lagrange J. 1811. Mécanique analytique. No. v.1. Paris: Ve Courcier.
                                    Lang S. 1966. Introduction to transcendental numbers. In: Addison-Wesley series in
                                        mathematics. Reading: Addison-Wesley Pub. Co.
                                    Lutz M. 2013. Learning Python. Sebastopol: O’Reilly Media, Inc.
                                    Mathpix, Inc. 2016. Mathpix — Solve and graph math using pictures. Available at
                                        http:// mathpix.com/ .
                                    Moses J. 1971. Algebraic simplification: a guide for the Perplexed. In: SYMSAC’71:
                                        proceedings of the second ACM symposium on symbolic and algebraic computation.
                                        New York: ACM Press, 282–304 DOI 10.1145/800204.806298.
                                    Nielsen M, Chuang I. 2011. Quantum computation and quantum information. New York:
                                        Cambridge University Press.
                                    Nijenhuis A, Wilf HS. 1978. Combinatorial algorithms: for computers and calculators.
                                        second edition. New York: Academic Press.



Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                         25/27
                                    Oliphant TE. 2007. Python for scientific computing. Computing in Science & Engineering
                                        9(3):10–20.
                                    Paprocki M. 2010. Design and implementation issues of a computer algebra system in an
                                        interpreted, dynamically typed programming language. Master’s thesis, University of
                                        Technology of Wrocław, Poland.
                                    Peeters K. 2007. Cadabra: a field-theory motivated symbolic computer algebra system.
                                        Computer Physics Communications 176(8):550–558.
                                    Pérez F, Granger BE. 2007. IPython: a system for interactive scientific computing.
                                        Computing in Science & Engineering 9(3):21–29.
                                    Peterson DL, Gede G, Hubbard M. 2014. Symbolic linearization of equations of motion
                                        of constrained multibody systems. Multibody System Dynamics 33(2):143–161
                                        DOI 10.1007/s11044-014-9436-5.
                                    Petkovšek M, Wilf HS, Zeilberger D. 1997. A = B. Wellesley: AK Peters, Ltd.,
                                        222+.Available at http:// www.math.rutgers.edu/ ~zeilberg/ AeqB.pdf .
                                    Raymond E. 1999. The cathedral and the bazaar. Knowledge, Technology & Policy
                                        12(3):23–49.
                                    Roach K. 1996. Hypergeometric function representations. In: ISSAC’96: proceedings of
                                        the 1996 international symposium on symbolic and algebraic computation. New York:
                                        ACM Press 301–308..
                                    Roach K. 1997. In: ISSAC’97: proceedings of the 1997 international symposium on symbolic
                                        and algebraic computation. New York: ACM, 205–211
                                        DOI 10.1145/258726.2587840-89791-875-4.
                                    Rocklin M. 2013. Mathematically informed linear algebra codes through term rewriting.
                                        PhD thesis, University of Chicago.
                                    Rocklin M, Terrel AR. 2012. Symbolic Statistics with SymPy. Computing in Science and
                                        Engineering 14(3):88–93 DOI 10.1109/MCSE.2012.56.
                                    Rose KH. 1999. XY-pic user’s guide. Available at http:// ctan.org/ tex-archive/ macros/
                                        generic/ diagrams/ xypic/ doc/ xyguide.pdf .
                                    Rosen L. 2005. Open source licensing: software freedom and intellectual property law.
                                        Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall.
                                    Sakurai J, Napolitano J. 2010. Modern quantum mechanics. Boston: Addison-Wesley.
                                    Shaw M, Garlan D. 1996. Software architecture: perspectives on an emerging discipline.
                                        Pittsburgh: Prentice Hall.
                                    Sussman GJ, Wisdom J. 2013. Functional differential geometry. Cambridge: Mas-
                                        sachusetts Institute of Technology Press.
                                    Tai C-T. 1997. Generalized vector and dyadic analysis: applied mathematics in field
                                        theory. Vol. 9. Hoboken: Wiley-IEEE Press.
                                    Takahasi H, Mori M. 1974. Double exponential formulas for numerical integration.
                                        Publications of the Research Institute for Mathematical Sciences 9(3):721–741.
                                    The Lcapy Developers. 2016. Lcapy, a Python package for linear circuit analysis.
                                        Available at http:// lcapy.elec.canterbury.ac.nz/ .




Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                     26/27
                                    The Mathics Developers. 2016. Mathics, a free, general-purpose online computer
                                        algebra system featuring Mathematica-compatible syntax and functions. Available
                                        at https:// mathics.github.io/ .
                                    The Quameon Developers. 2016. Quameon, quantum Monte Carlo in Python. Available
                                        at http:// quameon.sourceforge.net/ .
                                    The Sage Developers. 2016. SageMath, the sage mathematics software system. Available
                                        at http:// www.sagemath.org .
                                    The Symbolic Package Developers. 2016. The symbolic package for GNU Octave.
                                        Available at http:// octave.sourceforge.net/ symbolic.
                                    The SymPy Developers. 2016a. SymEngine, a fast symbolic manipulation library,
                                        written in C++. Available at https:// github.com/ symengine/ symengine.
                                    The SymPy Developers. 2016b. SymPy Gamma. Available at http:// www.sympygamma.
                                        com/ .
                                    The SymPy.jl Developers. 2016. SymPy.jl, a package to bring Python’s SymPy function-
                                        ality into Julia via PyCall. Available at https:// github.com/ JuliaPy/ SymPy.jl.
                                    Toth VT. 2007. Maple and Meijer’s G-function: a numerical instability and a cure.
                                        Available at http:// www.vttoth.com/ CMS/ index.php/ technical-notes/ 67 .
                                    Turk MJ, Smith BD, Oishi JS, Skory S, Skillman SW, Abel T, Norman ML. 2011. yt:
                                        a multi-code analysis toolkit for astrophysical simulation data. The Astrophysical
                                        Journal Supplement Series 192:9 DOI 10.1088/0067-0049/192/1/9.
                                    Zare R. 1991. Angular momentum: understanding spatial aspects in chemistry and
                                        physics. Hoboken: Wiley.
                                    Zienkiewicz O, Taylor R, Zhu J. 2013. The finite element method: its basis and funda-
                                        mentals. Seventh edition. Oxford: Butterworth-Heinemann.




Meurer et al. (2017), PeerJ Comput. Sci., DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.103                                                   27/27
