   RIEMANNIAN MANIFOLDS WITH POSITIVE MEAN CURVATURE
                                    Bv S. B. MYERS
   1. Intuitively it is natural to expect that a manifold whose curvature is every-
where positive and bounded away from zero will, if indefinitely extended, be
closed. Illustrating this geometric idea, in 1931 Hopf and Rinow proved thai;
a complete surface whose curvature is everywhere greater than or equal to a
positive constant e is closed (compact) and has a diameter not exceeding r/e,
and its universal covering manifold is also closed with diameter not exceeding
r/e. In 19352 the present author generalized this result to complete n-dimen-
sional Riemannian manifolds. There the curvature K is a function of a point
and a plane of directions; and if K => e for all points and all planes of direc-
tions, the space is closed and has diameter not exceeding r/e, the same results
holding for the universal covering manifold.
   The question now arises as to what conclusions can be drwn if the curvature
is allowed to vry more freely on complete mnifold, but the mean curvature,
a function of point nd a direction, is kept => e 2. The result of the present
paper is that such a mnifold M is closed nd has diameter not exceeding a,
where
                                    a-
                                                  e
also, its universal covering manifold is closed nd has diameter not exceeding a.
This implies that the fundamental group of M is finite. An important appli-
cation of this result is to spaces of constant positive mean curvature, which are
solutions of the field equations in the general theory of relativity.


                                      .
  2. Let M be an n-dimensional Riemannian manifold of class C 3), whose
mean curvature everywhere __> e We prove first the following lemma.
   Received March 3, 1941; presented to the American Mathematical Society, December
31, 1940.
     H. ttopf and W. Rinow, ber den Begriff der vollstgndigen differential-geometrischen
Flche, Comm. Math. Helvetici, vol. 3(1931), p. 224.
     S. B. Myers, Riemannian manifolds in the large, this Journal, vol. 1(1935), pp. 42-43.
     The mean curvature at a point P with respect to a vector (v) is the sum of the n       1
2-dimensional curvatures obtained by piring (v) with each of a set of n          1 mutually
orthogonal vectors all orthogonal to (v), and is independent of the choice of such a set.
See Eisenhart, Riemannian Geometry, p. 113.
     If mean curvature were defined as an average instead of a sum, then this upper bound
for diameter would be simply r/e instead of a.
     The results of this paper re, however, proved for positive definite metrics, and hence
re not immediately applicable to the physical theory.
     See, for example, Myers, op. cit., p. 40.
                                            401
402                                   s.B. MYERS


                                                                    ,
  LEMMA. On an n-dimensional Riemannian manifold M of class C (3) whose mean
curvature with respect to every point and every direction >-_ e no geodesic arc o]
length greater than r(n     1)ie-1 can be the shortest arc joining its ends.
  Let g be any geodesic arc of length a, with endpoints P and Q. Set up coSrdio
nates (x)       (x,     x’) in the neighborhood of g such that the functions
g, (a, fl    1,      n) appearing in the fundamental quadratic form satisfy the
following conditions along g:
                                               Og       O         (a, 3,       l,     n)

while the coSrdinates x
s on g measured from P.
                         ,     X   are constant along g and x is the arc length

   In this coSrdinute system the curvature of M at point on g with respect
                                 ,
to the plane of directions determed by the unit vector O, O,
to g at P and any vector (,                O) orthogonal to g at is
                                                                     1) tangent
                                                                           by   ven
                                 K(, ,)       Ri
                                                 ,,           (i, j, k     1, ..., n 1).

The functions R,(s) are Riemann symbols of the first kind the coSrdinates
(x) taken along g. The mean curvature R at with respect to the vector
(0, 0,... 1) is given by
                              R (P)     R..           R..
which is the trace of the determinant R,i ].
  Now consider the second variation J(n) along g in the non-parametric cal-
culus of variations problem sociated with


                                I" (g,dx" dx’d," ...,
J(y) is to be evaluated for arbitrary functions (s),         -(s) of class D’
vanishing at s 0 and s       a, and must be positive for all such () not   (0)
unless g contains a point conjugate to P (perhaps at Q). Upon computation,
we find




     See T. Levi-Civita, Math. Annalen, vol. 97(1927), pp. 291-320. Also see M. Morse, The
Calculus of Variations in the Large, Am. Math. Soc. Colloquium Publication, New York,
1934, pp. 108-110.
     We are using the summation convention of tensor analysis.
     Cf. J. L. Synge, On the neighborhood of a geodesic in Riemannian space, this Journal,
vol. 1(1935), p. 527.
          RIEMANNIAN MANIFOLDS rITH POSITIVE MEAN CURVATURE                                40

Integrating the first term by parts, and using the fact that (7) vanishes at both
ends, we obtain
                                                                       k
                                      o

                                           [n’n" + K(., n)n ] d.
Now (s) can be written as f(s)(s), where

and
                                  f(O)            f(a)       O.
We find



                                f[:"
J() must be greater than 0 for f(s)
                                          --     f(K
                                                         "   r")l ds.
                                         (0) vanishing at both ends and all unit
vectors i’(s) unless g contains a point conjugate to P.
  Now choose

so that
                               f(s)          sin e(n- 1)


                                                   e
                                                                  s,


                                 $,, /
and choose n        1 constant unit vectors i’(s)                 i. For ,       fi’ we obtain
            J(?i)            f[f" -{- fK(s, yi)] ds                    f n   1



But K >= e   ,   so that
                                          n--1
                                                 J(y) -< 0.
Hence for at least one value of j, J() =< O.
  Therefore g must contain a point conjugate to P (perhaps at Q). Thus no
geodesic arc of length greater than a can be a minimizing arc, and the lemma is
proved.
404                                s.B. MYERS

  3. Now suppose M is complete. Then1 every pair of points P and Q on M
can be joined by a shortest curve which will be a geodesic with length equal to
the distance between its ends. From the lemma it follows that the shortest
curve joining P to Q is of length not exceeding a, hence the distance PQ
This makes every set of points on M bounded. But completeness implies that
every infinite bounded set on M has a limit point, 1 so that every infinite set
on M has a limit point and M is compact (closed).
   We have, then, the following:
                                                                               _   a.




   THEOREM I. A complete n-dimensional Riemannian manifold whose mean
curvature at every point and with respect to every direction >=   e is closed and has
diameter not exceeding r(n         -.
                                 1)e
   Now the universal covering manifold of M can be provided with the same
local differential geometry as M, and will also be complete. So we have
   THEOREM II. The universal covering manifold of a complete n-dimensional
Riemannian manifold with mean curvature everywhere not less than e is closed and
has diameter not exceeding (n           -.
                                      1)}e
   COROLLARY. A complete n-dimensional Riemannian manifold with mean curva-
ture everywhere at least equal to e has a finite fundamental group.
   As a special case of these theorems we have the
   COROLLARY. A complete n-dimensional Riemannian manifold with constant
positive mean curvature e is closed, has a finite fundamental group, and has diameter
not exceeding (n       1)e-.
  4. The n-dimensional unit sphere, which has constant unit curvature and
hence constant mean curvature       n     1, and has diameter r, is an example
showing that the upper bound for diameter just given cannot be improved.
An example to show that the results of this paper go beyond the previously
treated case of manifolds with positive curvature bounded away from zero is
the topological product of two 2-dimensional unit spheres, provided with a local
Riemannian quadratic form which is the sum of the forms for the two 2-spheres.
This 4-dimensional manifold has constant positive mean curvature 1. The
curvature itself varies from 0 to 1 inclusive, and thus is not constant and not
even bounded away from 0.
      UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
  x Hopf and Rinow, loc. cit.
